It can be a very complicated thing, the ocean. 
And we're making the ocean pretty unhappy in a lot of different ways. 
People working in these canneries could barely stay there all day because of the smell, but you know what they came out saying? 
We made the ocean unhappy; we made people very unhappy, and we made them unhealthy. 
We see the base of the food chain, the plankton, the small things, and we see how those animals are food to animals in the middle of the pyramid, and on so up this diagram. 
Now, a dolphin, mother dolphin, any dolphin -- there's only one way that a PCB can get out of a dolphin. 
And what's that? 
Here's a diagram of the PCB load of dolphins in Sarasota Bay. 
And we also are eating meat that comes from some of these same places. 
That's a tragedy for those populations, but it's also a tragedy for the people eating them because they don't know that that's toxic meat. 
These same infections create harmful algal blooms. 
I started out showing how much we had distressed the Monterey Bay ecosystem with pollution and the canning industry and all of the attendant problems. 
It's an ocean planet, and we think of ourselves as a terrestrial species, but the pyramid of life in the ocean and our own lives on land are intricately connected. 
It's a huge driver for culture and I think that it's the most underrated force on our behavior. 
The people in these studies report feeling so awake during the daytime, that they realize they're experiencing true wakefulness for the first time in their lives. 
So, cut to the modern day. 
Okay, we'll do something with it. 
Puppets always have to try to be alive. 
It's their kind of ur-story onstage, that desperation to live. 
His mother was a puppeteer. 
And, in fact, it took about 10 years to discover the Bambara Bamana puppets of Mali in West Africa, where there's a fabulous tradition of puppetry, to learn a renewed, or a new, respect for this art form. 
So we made a model. 
And we had a crate built for it. 
We were going to test-drive it on the street outside of our house in Cape Town, and it got to midnight and we hadn't done that yet. 
A month later, we were there in London with this big box and a studio full of people about to work with us. 
And we went back to Cape Town and redesigned the horse completely. 
And here is our factory in Cape Town where we make horses. 
I'd just like to describe -- I won't talk too loud. He might get irritated. 
The ears are obviously a very important emotional indicator of the horse. 
When they point right back, the horse is fearful or angry, depending upon what's going on in front of him, around him. 
The hind legs have got the same action. 
And Mikey also has, in his fingers, the ability to move the tail from left to right, and up and down with the other hand. 
And together, there's quite a complex possibility of tail expression. 
And it's very, very simple because all that happens is that the puppeteer breathes with his knees. 
But of course, it was the cane is light, the cane is flexible, the cane is durable and the cane is moldable. 
And it's driven and propelled forward by new leaders, like many of the people here, by new tools, like the ones we've seen here, and by new pressures. 
What it tells is the story of how today actually could be as historic as 100 years ago. 
Now, this may surprise you. 
Now we have Wikipedia. 
Suddenly big things can be done for love. 
Take a look, if you haven't, at DonorsChoose. 
The third category is represented by Warren Buffet, which I call aggregated giving. 
It's that he challenged another assumption, that every giver should have his or her own fund or foundation. 
We have got to realize that it is going to take a long time to do these things. 
And that's where my imagined future comes in, which I am going to call the social singularity. 
We can create a future where hope and history rhyme. 
That's why I have one last thing I want to show you. 
And they were great community leaders. 
I keep this photograph close by to me -- it's in my office -- because I've always felt a mystical connection to these two men, both of whom I never knew. 
And I want you to imagine that it's 100 years from now, and your grandchild, or great-grandchild, or niece or nephew or god-child, is looking at this photograph of you. 
And what do I mean by that? 
And I asked them to come along with the person they communicate with most. 
What we're actually going to see is that, fundamentally, people are communicating on a regular basis with five, six, seven of their most intimate sphere. 
He just wants to wish her a good day, because that's the start of her day. 
They chat to each other every day, a few times a day actually. 
But it could be in a school, it could be an administration, it could be a hospital. 
If you were not, you maybe had to go through an operator. 
The phones were there. But the expectation was once you moved in there your commitment was fully to the task at hand, fully to the people around you. 
This only started about 150 years ago. 
They were living on top of the workshops where they were working. 
Companies blocking access to IM or to Facebook. 
How you get it shouldn't make that much of a difference. 
Now, two dozen men can tear down a mountain in several months, and only for about a few years' worth of coal. 
Now Judy and I -- I have to say -- totally related to each other. 
So homegirls and hillbillies we got it together and totally understand that this is what it's all about. 
And we know that eco-industrial business, these kinds of business models -- there's a model in Europe called the eco-industrial park, where either the waste of one company is the raw material for another, or you use recycled materials to make goods that you can actually use and sell. 
And in my hometown, we actually tried to do one of these in the Bronx, but our mayor decided what he wanted to see was a jail on that same spot. 
This can support seasonal farmers around metro areas who are losing out because they really can't meet the year-round demand for produce. 
And imagine a national business model that creates local jobs and smart infrastructure to improve local economic stability. 
The recession has us reeling and fearful, and there's something in the air these days that is also very empowering. 
There goes my dog who led me to the park in my wedding. 
I started my firm to help communities across the country realize their own potential to improve everything about the quality of life for their people. 
Hometown security is next on my to-do list. 
The first few systems that we created, they kind of worked. 
So she expresses here what it's like to see someone halfway across the world having taken your idea, built upon it and then acknowledging you for contributing. 
And he was a clever man. He sort of said, Well, that's OK, but you've done very well in your math SATs. 
It's taken at three o'clock in the morning, without the permission of the company. 
This picture was taken in 1982, just before the IBM PC was even announced. 
And when people tell me, Who's going to teach the teachers to teach the kids? 
What he observed was that kids who write computer programs understand things differently, and when they debug the programs, they come the closest to learning about learning. 
This is in the early 2000s. My son, Dimitri -- who's here, many of you know Dimitri -- went to Cambodia, set up this school that we had built, just as the school connected it to the Internet. 
I can see any head of state, any executive I want, at any time, because I'm not selling laptops. OK? I have no shareholders. 
If you look at our professional services, including search firms, including communications, including legal services, including banking, they're all pro bono. And it's not to save money. 
Dual-mode display -- that sunlight display's fantastic. 
And that was really critical. The mesh network, it'll become commonplace. 
It wasn't just to kind of make it cute, because somebody -- you know, good design is very important. 
If you're in a desert, they can talk to each other about two kilometers apart. 
Use your mailing lists. People in this room have extraordinary mailing lists. 
And the world production today, everybody combined, making laptops, is five million a month. So I'm standing here telling you that sometime next year, we're going to make 20 percent of the world production. 
Computers sort of came around through games and toys. 
And you know, the first computer most people had in the house may have been a computer to play Pong, a little microprocessor embedded, and then other games that came after that. 
Yeah, there's 38 million of them sold worldwide. 
Don't worry, relax, no, relax, it's a robot, it's smart! 
It can withstand a 400G shock. The robot has local intelligence: it can flip itself over, can get itself into communication range, can go upstairs by itself, et cetera. 
We had the robots down at the World Trade Center late that evening. 
So one year ago, the US military didn't have these robots. 
He sort of does that. But I'm going to -- Chris Anderson: I'm just British. RB: Oh. 
Okay. He's pretty good. Yeah. Good, good, good. 
And at different places in that space, it expresses -- can we have the volume on here? 
Kismet: Do you really think so? Do you really think so? 
Voice: Look at my smile. 
Voice: No. No. You're not to do that. No. 
We don't know whether he understood or not that the robot -- Notice the turn-taking. 
After all, that's certainly what modern molecular biology says about us. 
And for those of you that have teenagers, you know what that's like. 
And I don't think --  -- I don't think we're going to deliberately build robots that we're uncomfortable with. 
And the watchmaker turned around and said, God can see it. 
But I felt something. 
Now you probably know the answer to this already. 
I remember it clearly. 
I thought, well what the hell's that about? 
Now I'm not a neuroscientist. 
And how much of that reactive side of it is due to what we already know, or what we're going to learn, about something? 
And as we assemble these tools, from a design point of view, I get terribly excited about it, because these are things, as we've already said, they're arriving at the brain, it would seem, before cognition, before we can manipulate them -- electrochemical party tricks. 
Now when talking about beauty you can't get away from the fact that a lot experiments have been done in this way with faces and what have you. 
I'm not getting it off the eyebrow. 
Anais Nin and the Talmud have told us time and time again that we see things not as they are, but as we are. 
Ahhhh. 
But I also know why it's exquisite to me, because it's a palimpsest of things. 
I mean, if I just go through some of them now -- I know about laminar flow when it comes to air-piercing objects, and that does it consummately well, you can see it can. 
Why would you do that? 
Beautiful? Maybe lesser. 
Underneath this, like the story of the swan, is a million things very difficult to do. 
So all hail to that. 
The knowledge bubble that sits around the outside, the stuff that costs nothing, because that knowledge is free -- bundle that together and where do we come out? 
And so I've stopped using words like form, and I've stopped using words like function as a designer. 
And for the last decade or so, it's been quite clear what being an atheist means. 
Now I think it's too easy. 
And what I'd like to inaugurate today is a new way of being an atheist -- if you like, a new version of atheism we could call Atheism 2.0. 
I really like the art of Mantegna. 
I think there is an alternative. 
We have secularized badly, I would argue. 
You know the kind of thing a commencement address is, and graduation ceremonies, those lyrical claims that education, the process of education -- particularly higher education -- will make us into nobler and better human beings. 
We need data, we don't need help. 
And so we need guidance and we need didactic learning. 
they'd go, No, no. I don't need one of those. 
Well a sermon wants to change your life and a lecture wants to give you a bit of information. 
Otherwise our minds are like sieves. 
We associate repetition with boredom. 
We're just going to run through all the old ones and watch them five times because they're so true. 
The other things that religions do is to arrange time. 
All the major religions give us calendars. 
You won't do that by accident; you will do that because you are guided to do that. 
In the secular world we think, If an idea is important, I'll bump into it. 
That's very good. 
In the secular world, you can come through the university system and be a lousy speaker and still have a great career. 
What you're saying needs to be backed up by a really convincing way of saying it. 
After every convincing point, people will go, Amen, amen, amen. 
At the end of a really rousing paragraph, they'll all stand up, and they'll go, Thank you Jesus, thank you Christ, thank you Savior. 
Religions are fascinating in the way they try and combine the two. 
We sometimes hear it said that museums are our new cathedrals, or our new churches. 
Art is about two things in all the major faiths. 
And if that thing is good, there's no problem with it at all. 
Art should be didactic. 
Whereas the people who are selling us the higher stuff -- the therapists, the poets -- are on their own and they have no power, they have no might. 
But you left out one aspect of religion that a lot of people might say your agenda could borrow from, which is this sense -- that's actually probably the most important thing to anyone who's religious -- of spiritual experience, of some kind of connection with something that's bigger than you are. 
Is there any room for that experience in Atheism 2.0? 
I would say that there are many, many gaps in secular life and these can be plugged. 
And as it happened, I read it from midnight to five in the morning in one shot. 
This is one of the largest underground labs in the world. 
There is another way to search for dark matter, which is indirectly. 
When a neutrino hits a water molecule it emits a kind of blue light, a flash of blue light, and by looking for this blue light, you can essentially understand something about the neutrino and then, indirectly, something about the dark matter that might have created this neutrino. 
But nonetheless, it's an extraordinary piece of engineering. 
Here's another view of the same. 
The reason why you have to build these telescopes in places like the Atacama Desert is because of the high altitude desert. 
And remember, all this wiring is being done by people in extreme cold, in sub-zero temperatures. 
They're wearing about 15 kg of clothing and stuff, but they have to take their gloves off in order to do that. 
Anil Ananthaswamy: And I'll finally like to leave you with two images. 
They're going to learn from whatever it is they have around them. 
It is, by far and away, the largest print library in the world. 
Then the question is, what do you get? 
It's starting to be a little bit more specified. 
But I have to say that there's older technologies that I tend to like. 
And it turns out to not be very hard. 
You can actually get really good-looking books for on the order of one penny per page, sort of the parts cost for doing this. 
And so we've tried that, and I'll go over that in a moment. 
And it's called the Espresso Book Machine, and in about 10 minutes, you can press a button and make a book. 
And one of my favorites in this is the $100 laptop. 
If you really care about books, you're going to scan them better, especially if they're valuable books. 
So all in all, that's going very well. 
And so we're starting up a program to do out-of-print works, but loaning them. 
But it is within our grasp, technologically and law-wise, at least for the out of print and out of copyright, we suggest, to be able to get the whole darn thing online. 
It's sort of the biggest TiVo box you've ever seen. 
It's about a petabyte, so far, of worldwide television -- Russian, Chinese, Japanese, Iraqi, Al Jazeera, BBC, CNN, ABC, CBS, NBC -- 24 hours a day. 
So we've got about 100,000 pieces up there. 
And actually, it's really been pioneered by Alexa Internet, which donates this collection to the Internet Archive. 
If we go and put it in a couple more places, I think we'll be in good shape. 
You'll eat countless gourmet meals. 
Not likely. 
And this, and then this. 
Day 21, day 23, day 25. 
Fungi don't like to rot from bacteria, and so our best antibiotics come from fungi. 
How is that possible? 
The tallest plants on Earth at that time were less than two feet. 
The Earth was struck by an asteroid, a huge amount of debris was jettisoned into the atmosphere. 
We were involved with several experiments. 
There were four piles saturated with diesel and other petroleum waste: one was a control pile; one pile was treated with enzymes; one pile was treated with bacteria; and our pile we inoculated with mushroom mycelium. 
The mycelium is producing enzymes -- peroxidases -- that break carbon-hydrogen bonds. 
So I invented burlap sacks, bunker spawn -- and putting the mycelium -- using storm blown debris, you can take these burlap sacks and put them downstream from a farm that's producing E. coli, or other wastes, or a factory with chemical toxins, and it leads to habitat restoration. 
There's more than a 100 million colonies per gram, and 10 to the third power is around 1,000. 
In 48 hours to 72 hours, these three mushroom species reduced the amount of coliform bacteria 10,000 times. 
This is a space-conservative method that uses storm debris -- and we can guarantee that we will have storms every year. 
So, this one mushroom, in particular, has drawn our interest over time. 
And a few years ago, we received these results. 
10 or greater are considered to be very active. 
And so, for the first time, I am showing this. 
And we're using a natural extract within the same dosage window as a pure pharmaceutical. 
So, I went to the EPA homepage, and they were recommending studies with metarhizium species of a group of fungi that kill carpenter ants, as well as termites. 
The Life Box -- you're gonna be getting a DVD of the TED conference -- you add soil, you add water, you have mycorrhizal and endophytic fungi as well as spores, like of the Agarikon mushroom. 
The seeds then are mothered by this mycelium. 
I've also lived in Biosphere 2. 
Well, in 1991 it was finally time for us to go in and try out this baby. 
The day I walked into Biosphere 2, I was, for the first time, breathing a completely different atmosphere than everybody else in the world, except seven other people. 
We were taking their biomass, storing them in the basement, growing plants, going around, around, around, trying to take all of that carbon out of the atmosphere. 
And we had no clue where it was. 
And that you literally do that. You stop breathing and then you --  -- take a breath and it wakes you up. And it's very irritating. 
And I recoiled. They stank! 
People stink! 
I had no idea what was in my food, where it came from. 
And so we sent one onto the Mir Space Station. 
Shrimp farms are a scourge on the earth, frankly, from an environmental point of view. 
And understand its interactions with the entire Earth. 
Now it may not seem like it, but we are. 
Thank you.  
What I'd like you to do is, just really quickly, is just, sort of, nod to the person on your right, and then nod to the person on your left. 
And one documentary writer, who was here and looked at this two months after I was here, described this not as beehives but as a graveyard, with these empty white boxes with no bees left in them. 
It was called that because a guy in Israel first found it, and he now regrets profoundly calling it that disease, because, of course, there's the implication. 
We needed beeswax for a project we were working on; he was so capable, he was able to render the nicest block of beeswax I have ever seen from cow dung, tin cans and his veil, which he used as a screening, right in this meadow. And so that ingenuity is inspiring. 
And we see these families, these nomadic families, you know, father to son, father to son, and these guys are hurting. 
We have bumblebees on the top. 
Dennis vanEngelsdorp: Bee. Okay, thanks. 
And in fact, there is now a red list of pollinators that we're worried have disappeared, and on top of that list are a lot of these kleptoparasites, but also these bumblebees. 
There are other animals that pollinate, like bats, and bats are in trouble too. 
But I'm glad to say that I think we know the cause of all these conditions, and that cause is NDD: Nature Deficit Disorder. 
And that is, make meadows and not lawns. 
Now, not all of us have meadows, or lawns that we can convert, and so you can always, of course, grow a meadow in a pot. 
And everyone should open a beehive, because it is the most amazing, incredible thing. 
And if we want to cure ourselves of NDD, or Nature Deficit Disorder, I think this is a great way of doing it. 
She Googled, and she found this World Whistling Championship in America, of course. 
Okay, I'm not the only one whistling here. 
And I want to first rehearse with you your whistling. 
I start it myself. 
But there is a much more fundamental mistake in the overall story of the ark that's not reported here. 
So now we have God that is going to submerge Earth permanently or at least for a very long period, and no one is taking care of plants. 
Why? 
This is not the common man. 
You know very well about professors. 
When he speaks about animals, [he] tends to remove the fact that plants exist. 
The blue whale, the biggest creature that exists on the planet -- that is wrong, completely wrong. 
Some of them are much more sophisticated. 
Many insects have been used by plants as vectors for the transport of the pollination, but not just insects; even birds, reptiles, and mammals like bats rats are normally used for the transportation of the pollen. 
This is a serious business. 
So we studied the root apex and we found that there is a specific region that is here, depicted in blue -- that is called the transition zone. 
Now we know that a root apex has just a few hundred cells that show this kind of feature, but we know how big the root apparatus of a small plant, like a plant of rye. 
They work in the same way. 
Well, if you want to fly, it's good that you look at birds -- to be inspired by birds. 
But if you want to explore soils, or if you want to colonize new territory, to best thing that you can do is to be inspired by plants that are masters in doing this. 
It's much more easy to work with plants than with animals. 
Thank you. 
She's being filmed with a hidden camera. 
So she's noticed the unusual thing, but she's gone back to her normal life. 
And we've continued to do it every year. 
Looking at the entire facade -- there were 70 total windows -- and I knew what I had to do. 
So then I gave a new hand signal, which signaled the next soloist down below in Forever 21, and he danced. 
This is the Best Buy in New York City. 
And it's a very depressing place to be in the morning, it's very crowded. 
The participants at Improv Everywhere events have just as much leisure time as any other New Yorkers, they just occasionally choose to spend it in an unusual way. 
And I think that's sort of the point of Improv Everywhere. 
There was no way to predict how far it would spread through water supplies and how bad the situation would get. 
It doesn't require any special training. 
It's a quite wonderfully designed animal. 
They have become domesticated, and human beings have been redesigning their religions for thousands of years. 
Because what I've been doing for the last four years, really since the first time you saw me -- some of you saw me at TED when I was talking about religion, and in the last four years I've been working just about non-stop on this topic. 
And you might say it's about the reverse engineering of religions. 
And, as with the cow, there's a mixture of evolutionary design, designed by natural selection itself, and intelligent design -- more or less intelligent design -- and redesigned by human beings who are trying to redesign their religions. 
It's like a coin flip; it doesn't count really. 
Is it totalitarian to require reading, writing and arithmetic? 
I know many religions are so anxious about preserving the purity of their faith among their children that they are intent on keeping their children ignorant of other faiths. 
This picture, which I pulled off the web -- the fellow on the left is really an important part of this picture. 
It wasn't the cleverness of the sheep at all. 
If you understand Orgel's Second Rule, then you understand why the Intelligent Design movement is basically a hoax. 
Again and again biologists are fascinated with the brilliance of what's discovered. 
But the process itself is without purpose, without foresight, without design. 
Well, it's because its brain had been infected with a lancet fluke that was -- needed to get into the belly of a sheep or a cow in order to reproduce. 
The key to our domination of the planet is culture, and the key to culture is religion. 
They'd want to know how it originated, what it was for and how it perpetuates itself. 
In that case, a parasite gets into a mouse and it needs to get into the belly of a cat. 
But I'm not just talking about Islam. 
I'm talking also about Christianity. 
You've all got a copy. 
You've just heard the man. 
First of all, the goal. 
The book is clear, vivid, accessible, beautifully formatted. 
Just enough repetition. 
And it would just be insincere of me not to address those problems. 
That's worth mentioning. 
You could stop reading this book because life would have no purpose or meaning or significance. 
But that is just a difference of opinion. 
That's not what I'm really worried about. 
And here I think, Wait a minute. 
Is he endorsing creationism here? 
Your mind can handle 15,000 decisions a second. 
Well, there's a sense which I agree with him, except I think it has an evolutionary explanation. 
Whose truth are we going to listen to? 
And here's one that does concern me. 
And I'd really like to get a response if Rick is able to do it. 
A very clever little meme. 
In fact, all of you as you sit here right now are vibrating. 
Every part of your body is vibrating at different frequencies. 
It looks a bit like this. 
The trouble with widespread headphone use is it brings three really big health issues. 
It makes you tired and irritable to have to make up all of that data. 
You're having to imagine it. 
Professional hearing protectors are great; I use some all the time. 
The Elizabethans described language as decorated silence. 
Sound design is the future, and I think it's the way we're going to change the way the world sounds. 
It's a fantastic antidote to schizophonia; to make music and sound in a group of people, whichever style you enjoy particularly. 
I'm leaving you with a little more birdsong, which is very good for you. 
We might one day see a shadow a black hole can cast on a very bright background, but we haven't yet. 
Einstein realized that if space were empty, if the universe were empty, it would be like this picture, except for maybe without the helpful grid drawn on it. 
This is the hardworking scientist under harsh conditions. 
He thought nature would protect us from their formation. 
It's actually not massive enough. 
It would be bad if we tried to fire our rockets and get out of there because we couldn't, anymore than light can escape. 
Space squeezes and stretches as it emanates out from these black holes banging on the universe. 
Want to get away from the sound. 
Now that chirp is very characteristic of black holes merging -- that it chirps up at the end. 
There are very industrious experiments being built on Earth -- one called LIGO -- which will detect deviations in the squeezing and stretching of space at less than the fraction of a nucleus of an atom over four kilometers. 
It's everywhere, it's all around you, and the space is wobbling chaotically. 
Imagine a billion years ago, two black holes collided. 
If it was the Big Bang we were going to pick up, it would sound like this. 
And if we pick it up, it will be music to our ears because it will be the quiet echo of that moment of our creation, of our observable universe. 
And our prison system itself is stuck. 
Funds for education, for training and for rehabilitation are declining, so this despairing cycle of incarceration continues. 
We give science lectures, and the men here are choosing to come to our science lectures instead of watching television or weightlifting. 
We partnered with the Nature Conservancy for inmates at Stafford Creek Correctional Center to grow endangered prairie plants for restoration of relic prairie areas in Washington state. 
And just recently, we've begun to work with those men who are segregated in what we call Supermax facilities. 
And so what we see, I think, is that small, collective movements of change can perhaps move an entity such as our own prison system in a direction of hope. 
It can't afford to doubt the person who tends the child. 
That implies a lot of trust. 
As the child grows, it begins to discover that the person trusted is violating the trust. 
You can be compassionate occasionally, more moved by empathy than by compassion. 
The tennis etiquette is, both the players have to come to the net and shake hands. 
Compassion is not defined in one form. 
That means the whole universe, known things and unknown things. 
There's no choice in this: that only confirms the reality that the wholeness cannot be different from you, cannot be minus you. 
You express yourself because you have compassion. 
There is no shortcut: it is like swimming by swimming. 
That's interesting to me. 
You fake it and make it. 
If you know how to pray, pray. 
Well, it has its pluses and minuses. 
Therefore, we don't find the moral, emotional, psychological and political space to distance ourselves from the reality of social responsibility. 
Oddly enough, an artist such as myself finds herself also in the position of being the voice, the speaker of my people, even if I have, indeed, no access to my own country. 
We are there to take pride and insist on respect. 
I envy sometimes the artists of the West for their freedom of expression. 
Our people depend on our artists, and culture is beyond communication. 
I work in Morocco, in Turkey, in Mexico. 
How to tell a political story but an allegorical story. 
What was most significant for me was, once again, the presence of the women. 
Start differentiating into effector and memory cells. 
We have a million students a month using the site, watching on the order of 100 to 200,000 videos a day. 
And then in a response to that same comment -- this is on the thread. 
But the paradigm here is, we'll generate as many questions as you need until you get that concept, until you get 10 in a row. 
In a traditional classroom, you have a couple of homework, homework, lecture, homework, lecture, and then you have a snapshot exam. 
But as ridiculous as that sounds, that's exactly what's happening in our classrooms right now. 
So you can imagine -- and this is what we are working on -- is from this knowledge map you have logic, you have computer programming, you have grammar, you have genetics, all based off of that core of, if you know this and that, now you're ready for this next concept. 
It'll change what happens at the dinner table. 
Green means the student's already proficient. 
And the data gets pretty granular so you can see the exact problems that the student got right or wrong. 
And so the same kids that you thought were slow six weeks ago, you now would think are gifted. 
And I think what you'll see emerging is this notion of a global one-world classroom. 
I'm still doing all the videos, but we have a rockstar team doing the software. 
And they're doing it at the district level. 
And they're literally saying, Hey, this is nice, but ...  Like that focus graph, a lot of the teachers said, I have a feeling that a lot of the kids are jumping around and not focusing on one topic. 
But yeah, it's all there. 
And seeing with the brain is often called imagination. 
So I am going to be talking about hallucinations, and a particular sort of visual hallucination which I see among my patients. 
Animals too. 
I see cats and dogs walking towards me. 
She said, It's got color. It's got motion. 
I said, There is a special form of visual hallucination which may go with deteriorating vision or blindness. 
And you have Charles Bonnet syndrome. 
And about 10 percent of the visually impaired people get visual hallucinations. 
Now with the original description in the 18th century, Charles Bonnet did not have them. 
On one occasion, he saw a man in a bathrobe smoking a pipe, and realized it was himself. 
These cartoons would be transparent and would cover half the visual field, like a screen. 
But what did disturb her was she got very persistent images or hallucinations of faces and as with Rosalie, the faces were often deformed, with very large teeth or very large eyes. 
In particular, the notion is that if you see things or hear things, you're going mad, but the psychotic hallucinations are quite different. 
And in particular, one area of the temporal lobe is called the fusiform gyrus. 
And now we know that there are hundreds of other sorts of cells, which can be very, very specific. 
Well, I've more or less said what I wanted. 
But they stop there. 
Well they don't disturb me any more than my tinnitus, which I ignore. 
They occasionally interest me, and I have many pictures of them in my notebooks. 
So it's a little-appreciated fact that most of the animals in our ocean make light. 
I've spent most of my career studying this phenomenon called bioluminescence. 
I also use it as a tool for visualizing and tracking pollution. 
This is the first time it has ever been recorded. 
So that light was made by a bioluminescent dinoflagellate, a single-celled alga. 
There's a lot of animals that use this trick, for example this black dragonfish. 
It's got a light organ under its eye. 
It's a scream for help; it's meant to attract attention. 
There's other ways you can defend yourself with light. 
This little squid is called the fire shooter because of its ability to do this. 
This is a golden coral, a bush. 
We're talking to something. 
But he's persistent. 
We need more eyes on the process. 
Scientists have always created pictures as part of their thinking and discovery process. 
In the top left-hand corner, you've got this yellow-green area. 
And those red molecules are hemoglobin. 
And hemoglobin acts as a molecular sponge to soak up the oxygen in your lungs and then carry it to other parts of the body. 
And that's how I really began. So let's begin. 
Those are the letters of genetic code, the 25,000 genes you've got written in your DNA. 
But they physically run in opposite directions, which creates a number of complications for your living cells, as you're about to see, most particularly when DNA is being copied. 
And so what I'm about to show you is an accurate representation of the actual DNA replication machine that's occurring right now inside your body, at least 2002 biology. 
And it's jiggling and wiggling there because of the surrounding soup of molecules, which I've stripped away so you can see something. 
But in each one of your cells, each strand of DNA is about 30 to 40 million nanometers long. 
It is made up of about 200 different types of proteins, thousands of proteins in total. 
That is the signal broadcasting system sending out the stop signal. 
This is how you work at the molecular scale. 
And we don't know exactly how they did this, although they must have solved some collective action problems; it only makes sense that you can't hunt mastodons while you're fighting with the other groups. 
So that raised a social question that I believe must have driven new social forms. 
Again, we can't know, but we can be pretty sure that some form of symbolic communication must have been involved. 
We saw scientific revolutions, the Protestant Reformation, constitutional democracies possible where they had not been possible before. 
I'm going to talk briefly about two of them: the prisoner's dilemma and the tragedy of the commons. 
Garrett Hardin used it to talk about overpopulation in the late 1960s. 
And most recently, neurophysiological measures have shown that people who punish cheaters in economic games show activity in the reward centers of their brain. 
Jim Surowiecki briefly mentioned Yochai Benkler's paper about open source, pointing to a new form of production: peer-to-peer production. 
Toyota, instead of treating its suppliers as a marketplace, treats them as a network and trains them to produce better, even though they are also training them to produce better for their competitors. 
I don't think we've even begun to discover what the basic principles are, but I think we can begin to think about them. 
I believe that the payoff would be very big. 
What forms of suffering could be alleviated, what forms of wealth could be created if we knew a little bit more about cooperation? 
I don't think that this transdisciplinary discourse is automatically going to happen; it's going to require effort. 
I'm not going to dive into them either, but photosynths are integrated into the map. 
So this is something that we're now going to try for the first time, live, and this is really, truly, very frightening. 
No, no. The other way. 
This is the current -- thank you -- this is the current time. If we scrub the time, then we can see how the sky will look at different times, and we can get all of this very detailed information about different times, different dates: Let's move the moon a little higher in the sky, maybe change the date. 
All right now, I've overrun my time, so I've got to stop. 
Sophal Ear: So, notwithstanding the 1970s narration, on April 17th 1975 we lived in Phnom Penh. 
They were young soldiers, typically child soldiers. 
So the Khmer Rouge took us from a place called Pursat to Kaoh Tiev, which is across from the border from Vietnam. 
And we end up in Hong Ngu on the Vietnamese side. 
And then onwards to Chau Doc. 
Thank you mother. 
Somebody has to be a witness to what has happened to you. 
And one evening, I was sitting next to a very nice gentleman in Kabul, and he asked what I thought would be good in Afghanistan. 
This was our sign -- it's hand-painted, and we had 45 all over Kabul. 
We developed a culturally-sensitive psycho-social counseling approach. 
And now you are helping me to regain some confidence in the future. 
Child: There is no difference here between classes, nor white or black, nor if you have money or not. 
Simply, if you are talented, if you have the vocation and the will to be here, you get in. You share with us and make music. 
In its essence, the orchestra and the choir are much more than artistic structures. 
That's how they build a spirit of solidarity and fraternity among them, develop their self-esteem and foster the ethical and aesthetical values related to the music in all its senses. 
All this makes up a constructive and ascending social dynamic. 
It's what makes a little girl play the clarinet at home, while her mother does the housework. 
And these will be some simple design qualities and they will also be some qualities of, if you will, the intelligence of interaction. 
Now we've put people 18 inches in front of a TV, and all the artifacts that none of the original designers expected to be seen, all of a sudden, are staring you in the face: the shadow mask, the scan lines, all of that. 
And my favorite example is always fingers. 
In fact, they're not: it's really a very, very high-resolution input medium -- you have to just do it twice, you have to touch the screen and then rotate your finger slightly -- and you can move a cursor with great accuracy. 
And we have never known how to do this technically, so this slide is a fake slide. 
OK. So there is the pressure-sensitive display in operation. 
The person's just, if you will, pushing on the screen to make a curve. 
And what you can do -- oops, I didn't mean to do that -- what you can do is actually feed back to the user the feeling of the physical properties. 
What I'll show you very quickly is a new kind of book where it is mixed now with ... all sorts of things live in there, but you have to keep a few things in mind. 
So it knows, or at least there is computer-readable information in the medium itself. It's just not a static movie frame. 
Now, that would be, if you will, the top green track, which doesn't mean too much. But you might have to elaborate for me or for somebody who isn't an expert, and say, Cook at 380 degrees for 45 minutes. 
If you're in a classroom situation and somebody asks a question, the last thing you do is repeat what you just said. 
He says, Well, reading is this junk they give me in little books to read. 
And that story has many other anecdotes that are similar, but wow. The key to the future of computers in education is right there, and it is: when does it mean something to a child? 
What the truth is is that speaking has great value to a child; the child can get a great deal by talking to you. 
Well, in Senegal we found that this was the traditional classroom: 120 kids -- three per desk -- one teacher, a little bit of chalk. 
That's what meant something to her, is doing the hair pattern, and actually did it within two days -- an hour each day -- and found it was, to her, absolutely the most meaningful piece ... 
And my last example -- as some of my former colleagues, whom I see in the room, can imagine what it will be. 
Now, that is sufficiently zany that we would, obviously, jump to the bait, and we did. 
So if I, all of a sudden, turn to the person to my left and start talking to that person, then at the person to my right's site, he'll see these two plastic heads talking to each other. 
And then if that person interrupts, then those two heads may turn. 
We're testing these kinds of simple sensor-network technologies in the home so that any phone that a senior is already comfortable with can help them deal with their medications. 
And as we monitor phone usage by seniors over a long period of time, down to the tenths of a microsecond, that recognition moment of whether they can figure out that person on the other end is a friend and we start talking to them immediately, or they do a lot of what's called trouble talk, where they're like, Wait, who is this? Oh. Right? 
So, sensors are looking at that kind of voice. 
If they have a hip fracture we go with them and we study their entire discharge experience. 
This is 50 tsunamis scheduled on the calendar, but somehow we can't sort of marshal our government and innovative forces to sort of get out in front of it and do something about it. We'll wait until it's more of a catastrophe, and react, as opposed to prepare for it. 
This mentality of traveling to and timesharing large, expensive healthcare systems actually began in 1787. 
We have to shift from this mainframe mentality of healthcare to a personal model of healthcare. 
How do we collect not just biological data but behavioral data, psychological data, relational data, in and on and around the home? 
They fixed her back up. She was never going to be able to move back into the assisted living. They put her into the nursing home unit. 
I'm not bragging about how much we fund; it's how little anyone else actually pays attention to aging and funds innovation on aging, chronic disease management and independent living in the home. 
And so that's what I've been striving for all of my life. 
But instead, I go out and I find things. 
Then I just pick things up. 
And so, at that time, I was able to make some interesting hypotheses along with my colleagues. 
The appearance of them would have been different -- which it is in all social animals. 
In social groups of animals, the juveniles always look different than the adults. 
And probably a whole bunch of trees as well. 
Now it wasn't DNA; she didn't find DNA. 
We gave samples to Mary Schweitzer, and she was actually able to determine that B-rex was a female based on medullary tissue found on the inside of the bone. 
And so we built a laboratory in the back of an 18-wheeler trailer, and actually took the laboratory to the field where we could get better samples. 
I mean, it was wonderful stuff. 
So that's what I'm here to tell you about: how we are going to fix a chicken. 
We started out with a wolf-like creature and we ended up with a Maltese. 
And so that's what we're looking into. 
Archaeopteryx, which is a bird, a primitive bird, still has that very primitive hand. 
It has the three fingers, the three digits. 
Birds have basically rudimentary tails. 
But a gene turns on and resorbs the tail, gets rid of it. 
And people always say, Why do that? 
What the Frigoris you doing? Names are important. 
Now, Frank is this clear to you, Djabran Fluctus? 
Listen, I'm going back to the swamp mermaid. Can you call me in a little while? 
So, these are actual names of people that work there. 
I did some more investigation. 
There are some mapping people who do use their names. 
So, formulas relate number to form. 
They got little babies in there, floating in there. 
It's a different kind of course. And they've got five apples? 
Because that's why we're here, really, I think to figure stuff out and to love each other. 
They are so different. 
Bode's law wasn't even his law. It was a guy named Titus. 
Just a correlation that indicates how things are misinterpreted. 
Golden section, I've been obsessed with this thing since before I was born. 
I know that scares a lot of you, but that was my purpose entirely. 
If Fibonacci had been on Paxil,  that would be the Fibonacci series. 
Yes, Mama. 
There is so many intricate relationships that I'm not going to go there now, because you would say, Hey, go back to the Fluctus part. 
And I'm presenting it here at TED. Why? 
It just seems like it's not sexy and elegant, it's hidden. 
And look at this, built within it is the Golden Ratio. 
Thank you. 
Good afternoon. 
In 1982, in the middle of the Cold War in Soviet Siberia, a pipeline exploded with a burst of 3 kilotons, the equivalent of a fourth of the Hiroshima bomb. 
And with these keys, they may have been able to get inside CENTCOM's systems, to see and hear everything, and maybe even infect some of them. 
As a result, the Americans take the threat very seriously. 
I'll quote General James Cartwright, Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who says in a report to Congress that cyberattacks could be as powerful as weapons of mass destruction. 
Moreover, the Americans have decided to spend over 30 billion dollars in the next five years to build up their cyberwar capabilities. 
Cyber weapons have this peculiar feature: they can be used without leaving traces. 
Cartoons are basically short stories. 
And that prompted people to make maps like this, with all kinds of wonderful detail on the land, but when you get to the waters edge, the ocean looks like one giant puddle of blue paint. 
And best of all, I saw the animals. 
Could you image if we looked through the Hubble Telescope and we saw that? 
It would start a whole new space race. 
For instance, take these sea turtles. 
They kind of have a sixth sense like Superman's x-ray vision. 
They can sense the magnetic fields of the earth. 
Or take this sea cucumber. 
He's sort of a Homer Simpson with fins. 
He goes down and he meets this famous anglerfish. 
The third storyline I did about a year and a half ago was probably my most difficult. 
I do three or four strips after that where we explore the finning issue and the shark fin soup issue. 
There was a real website based in China that actually sold shark fins, so I kind of exposed that. 
And you see you have a beautiful piece of white alabaster. 
So you say to yourself, Well, that's worth something. 
So you go back into the room, and you break this thing to pieces, and you haul it away. 
Thanks for listening. 
Audience: 22. 
Audience: 47. 
Woman: No. 
594. Let's give three of them a nice round of applause there. 
What I'm going to try and do then -- I notice that took some of you a little bit of time to get your answer. 
Audience: 23. 
Audience: 59. 
95,218,564? 
Eight-digit capacity -- don't you hate that? 
In the meanwhile, let me conclude the first part of my show by doing something a little trickier. 
Really scramble them up this time, please. 
For my next number --  while I mentally recharge my batteries, I have one more question for the audience. 
Let's see, starting with -- let's start with a gentleman first, OK sir, what year was it, first of all? That's why I start with a gentleman first. 
Yell it out, what year? Audience: 1959. 
1959, OK -- and the month? 
Audience: May. AB: May what? 
It was. AB: And it was cloudy. 
57,683 squared. Yuck. 
I'm going to break the problem down into three parts. 
I'll do 57,000 squared, plus 683 squared, plus 57,000 times 683 times two. 
While I explain something else -- -- I know, that you can use, right? 
That seems right, I'll go on. Cookie fission, OK. 
A third time, it's just being a technician. 
So, I'm not going to talk about that. 
Get them out of schools, and keep them out of schools. 
Having said that, I outlined my talk about five minutes ago. 
No, if you want to know what society's going to be like in 20 years, ask a kindergarten teacher. 
But to me, things aren't the future. 
Right away, I hope that all of your eyes glaze over. 
This is a Klein bottle. 
It's one sided. It's a bottle whose inside is its outside. 
It has zero volume. And it's non-orientable. 
It has wonderful properties. 
That was a month of my life. 
Oh, cool. I can get to this place over here, right? 
I take lunch hour.  
One of the things that I've done for my science students is to tell them, Look, I'm going to teach you college-level physics. 
is a constant. When the frequency goes up, the wavelength comes down. Wavelength goes up, frequency goes down. So, if we have a wave here -- over here, that's what's interesting -- as the pitch goes up, things get closer, pitch goes down, things stretch out. 
Now, so I know the frequency. 
Those of you who are physicists, I hear you rolling your eyes, but bear with me.  
It's one of these bell-tower buildings. 
I keep climbing up, go back. 
A dome, one of these ten-foot domes. 
In this light, may science and religion endeavor here for the steady evolution of mankind, from darkness to light, from narrowness to broad-mindedness, from prejudice to tolerance. 
It's time for me to let it go. 
We want space efficiency. 
Finally, we want multifunctional spaces and housewares -- a sink combined with a toilet, a dining table becomes a bed -- same space, a little side table stretches out to seat 10. 
Guests? Move the moving wall, have some fold-down guest beds. 
Thank you. 
Seriously, but dangerously fun. 
And there it is. And I think this is a typical picture of what it was like in a courtyard then. 
So I'm gonna take you through what I think is a remarkable sequence. 
Any of you who've been to Africa or had a junkyard dog come after you, there is a fixed kind of predatory gaze that you know you're in trouble. 
And this polar bear stands over the husky, no claws extended, no fangs taking a look. 
And it's that state that allows these two creatures to explore the possible. 
They are beginning to do something that neither would have done without the play signals. 
And it is a marvelous example of how a differential in power can be overridden by a process of nature that's within all of us. 
John mentioned that I've done some work with murderers, and I have. 
If you're having a bad day, try this: jump up and down, wiggle around -- you're going to feel better. 
But it has to be safe exploration. 
But if you look closely, they're kind of like the polar bear and husky: no claws, flat fur, soft eyes, open mouth with no fangs, balletic movements, curvilinear movements -- all specific to play. 
We all have an internal narrative that's our own inner story. 
We don't know a whole lot about what it does for the human brain, because funding has not been exactly heavy for research on play. 
I think that -- that's a few years back -- I think that wave is past, and the play wave is cresting, because there is some good science. 
Now, the program says that the opposite of play is not work, it's depression. 
Nobody misses that dog I took a picture of on a Carmel beach a couple of weeks ago. 
You may not know this word, but it should be your biological first name and last name. 
Found that when he looked at a playground out of a window into which he had been confined, he felt something different. 
And looking at his history, which is common in the press, it seems to me, at least -- looking at it from a shrink's point of view -- that a lot of his life was programmed. 
He had the expectations of his senatorial father and Washington, D.C. 
Most of us work with groups, and I put this up because the d.school, the design school at Stanford, thanks to David Kelley and a lot of others who have been visionary about its establishment, has allowed a group of us to get together and create a course called From Play to Innovation. 
So what will follow is a student-made film about just that. 
But it doesn't have to be that way. 
Thank You. 
If you stop a cat from playing -- which you can do, and we've all seen how cats bat around stuff -- they're just as good predators as they would be if they hadn't played. 
And if you look at sleep and dreams biologically, animals sleep and dream, and they rehearse and they do some other things that help memory and that are a very important part of sleep and dreams. 
The next step of evolution in mammals and creatures with divinely superfluous neurons will be to play. 
Well, I think the only way I know to do it is to have accumulated the advisers that I have who go from practitioners -- who can establish through improvisational play or clowning or whatever -- a state of play. 
Unfortunately, that hasn't been done sufficiently for the National Science Foundation, National Institute of Mental Health or anybody else to really look at it in this way seriously. 
So our diners started to get bored with this idea, and we decided to give them the same course twice, so here we actually took an element from the maki roll and and took a picture of a dish and then basically served that picture with the dish. 
It's a glycoprotein called miraculin, a naturally occurring thing. It still freaks me out every time I eat it, but it has a unique ability to mask certain taste receptors on your tongue, so that primarily sour taste receptors, so normally things that would taste very sour or tart, somehow begin to taste very sweet. 
As long as it's good for you and good for the environment, it doesn't matter. 
Aside from one-person ABC mini-bureaus in Nairobi, New Delhi and Mumbai, there are no network news bureaus in all of Africa, India or South America -- places that are home to more than two billion people. 
And can we afford not to? Thank you. 
At this time, there were thousands of individuals, we think, that were infected with HIV. 
OK now, more importantly, had we been there in the '40s and '50s, '60s, had we seen this disease, had we understood exactly what was going on with it, how might that have changed and completely transformed the nature of the way this pandemic moved? 
Nevertheless, we spend the vast majority of our energy focused on this level of the pyramid, trying to tackle things that are already completely adapted to human beings, that are going to be very very difficult to address -- as we've seen in the case of HIV. 
So during the last 15 years, I've been working to actually study the earlier interface here -- what I've labeled viral chatter, which was a term coined by my mentor Don Burke. 
Narrator: Deep in a remote region of Cameroon, two hunters stalk their prey. 
A group of hunters approach, their packs loaded with wild game. 
This is challenging work to do. 
But -- when he began to speak they would actually recognize his voice from the radio. 
So what happened? So during the 10 years that we've been doing this work, we actually surprised ourselves. 
We made a number of discoveries. 
It's something we should be following. It's not something that we should be surprised by. 
So it's not just hunters in Central Africa. 
And somehow the idea that one would want to make art for the iPhone, which my friends and I are doing now, is still not reflected in our understanding of what computers are for. 
If you look carefully, you can even see a hint of the Apple menu, up here in the upper left, where the virtual world has literally punched through to the physical. 
Because this is, in some sense, the first way, that people discover their own potential as actors, and discover their own agency. 
By saying Who is that person in the mirror? Oh it's actually me. 
Song is one of our oldest ways of making ourselves heard and understood. 
And so, whereas Dr. Oliver Sacks has talked about how perhaps one person in a million actually has true synesthesia, where they hear colors or taste shapes, and things like this, phonaesthesia is something we can all experience to some extent. 
So the idea is you step into a kind of a magic light. 
You know? They don't imagine the person in the booth, typing it all. 
And it's one of the most interesting technical challenges that's very currently active in the computer sciences: being able to have a camera that can understand, from a fairly big distance away, how these little tiny balls are actually pointing in one way or another to reveal what you're interested in, and where your attention is directed. 
And so I've been beginning, with a variety of different projects, to understand how people can relate to machines with their eyes. 
In the first one which I'm going to show you, called Eyecode, it's a piece of interactive software in which, if we read this little circle, the trace left by the looking of the previous observer looks at the trace left by the looking of previous observer. 
But if I come up really close and stare directly at the camera on this laptop then you'll see these nice crisp eyes. 
And what you're typing are recordings of your eyes as you're looking at other peoples' eyes. 
And this exists in larger installations where there are thousands and thousands of eyes that people could be staring at, as you see who's looking at the people looking at the people looking before them. 
Checking him out ... 
You say what you're doing in 140 characters or less, and people who are interested in you get those updates. 
It is by sharing these moments as they're happening that lets people feel more connected and in touch, despite distance, and in real time. 
One of my favorites is what happened a few months ago when there was a gas shortage in Atlanta. 
It's happened more and more lately, whether it's raising money for homeless people or to dig wells in Africa or for a family in crisis. 
Evan Williams: Nice. Thanks. 
And I would like to tell you a few personal stories about what I like to call the danger of the single story. 
My characters also drank a lot of ginger beer because the characters in the British books I read drank ginger beer. 
I realized that people like me, girls with skin the color of chocolate, whose kinky hair could not form ponytails, could also exist in literature. 
But the unintended consequence was that I did not know that people like me could exist in literature. 
So what the discovery of African writers did for me was this: It saved me from having a single story of what books are. 
So I felt enormous pity for Fide's family. 
If I had not grown up in Nigeria, and if all I knew about Africa were from popular images, I too would think that Africa was a place of beautiful landscapes, beautiful animals, and incomprehensible people, fighting senseless wars, dying of poverty and AIDS, unable to speak for themselves and waiting to be saved by a kind, white foreigner. 
Now, I've laughed every time I've read this. 
So that is how to create a single story, show a people as one thing, as only one thing, over and over again, and that is what they become. 
My cousin Polle died because he could not get adequate healthcare. 
What the Nigerian writer Chinua Achebe calls a balance of stories. 
What if my roommate knew about my Nigerian publisher, Mukta Bakaray, a remarkable man who left his job in a bank to follow his dream and start a publishing house? 
He disagreed. He felt that people who could read, would read, if you made literature affordable and available to them. 
What if my roommate knew about the female lawyer who recently went to court in Nigeria to challenge a ridiculous law that required women to get their husband's consent before renewing their passports? 
Stories matter. 
We face momentous decisions with important consequences throughout our lives, and we have strategies for dealing with these decisions. 
We've surrendered our power, trading off our discomfort with uncertainty for the illusion of certainty that they provide. 
It literally flat-lined. 
But what my research has shown me is that experts tend on the whole to form very rigid camps, that within these camps, a dominant perspective emerges that often silences opposition, that experts move with the prevailing winds, often hero-worshipping their own gurus. 
A recent study in the Archives of Surgery reported surgeons removing healthy ovaries, operating on the wrong side of the brain, carrying out procedures on the wrong hand, elbow, eye, foot, and also mistakes born out of thinking errors. 
Why was it that, when I had an operation, my doctor said to me, Beware, Ms. Hertz, of hyperpyrexia, when he could have just as easily said, Watch out for a high fever. 
You see, being ready to take experts on is about also being willing to dig behind their graphs, their equations, their forecasts, their prophecies, and being armed with the questions to do that -- questions like: What are the assumptions that underpin this? 
If we are to shift paradigms, if we are to make breakthroughs, if we are to destroy myths, we need to create an environment in which expert ideas are battling it out, in which we're bringing in new, diverse, discordant, heretical views into the discussion, fearlessly, in the knowledge that progress comes about, not only from the creation of ideas, but also from their destruction -- and also from the knowledge that, by surrounding ourselves by divergent, discordant, heretical views. 
Google CEO Eric Schmidt is a practical practitioner of this philosophy. 
But just imagine if we were to junk this notion of expertise as some sort of elite cadre and instead embrace the notion of democratized expertise -- whereby expertise was not just the preserve of surgeons and CEO's, but also shop-girls -- yeah. 
Thank you. 
And so the thought that I started with was how do you do this, still within the boundary of the science we know today -- no time for science fair, no time for playing around with things or waiting for the magic battery to show up. 
First component is you charge the car whenever you stop -- ends up that cars are these strange beasts that drive for about two hours and park for about 22 hours. 
Now that last mile, last foot, in a sense, is the first step of the infrastructure. 
What we found out, when you move from molecules to electrons, something interesting happens. 
We have a battery bay. It costs the same hundred dollars as the gas tank. 
Those of you who have a hard time calculating what that means -- in the average consumer environment we're in in the U.S. 
That's a new economic factor, which is fascinating to most people. 
So we went out, and we looked at all the car companies. 
And I had to quit and come and do this thing called A Better Place. 
We decided to come into the U.S. 
The foundation of this curve is that we keep losing the wells that are close to the ground. 
By 2015 we would have had at least 250 million new cars even at the pace we're going at right now. 
And then we do the OPEC stimulus package also known as 200 dollars a barrel. 
And that's the difference between problems that are additive, like CO2, which we go slowly up and then we tip, and problems that are depletive, in which we lose what we have, which oscillate, and they oscillate until we lose everything we've got. 
You have to remember that the world today is bringing in so many cars. 
You're looking at a world where cars are matched with windmills. 
That's one percent a year. 
And when we go to COP15 at the end of this year we can't stop thinking of padding CO2. 
We have to start thinking about giving kickers to countries that are willing to go to this kind of scale. 
And there will be about a 20 percent chance we'll recover him. 
We have to make it immediately. 
And we need to do it not within 20 years or 50 years, but within this presidential term because if we don't, we will lose our economy, right after we'd lost our morality. 
They see us as rocking the boat, and you can understand why. 
Now, it may sound as though I'm about to preach atheism, and I want to reassure you that that's not what I'm going to do. 
Essentially, it does it by providing a smooth ramp of gradual step-by-step increment. 
It turns out to be, in principle, incapable of doing the job required of it. 
So, we're used to not challenging religious ideas and it's very interesting how much of a furor Richard creates when he does it. He meant me, not that one. 
It teaches them to accept authority, revelation and faith instead of always insisting on evidence. 
But suppose --  -- in 1987, a reporter asked George Bush, Sr. 
whether he recognized the equal citizenship and patriotism of Americans who are atheists. 
She clearly feels in a beleaguered minority, but actually, how do American atheists stack up numerically? 
The survey that I quoted, which is the ARIS survey, didn't break down its data by socio-economic class or education, IQ or anything else. 
But let me know show you some data that have been properly published and analyzed on one special group, namely, top scientists. 
In 1998, Larson and Witham polled the cream of American scientists, those who'd been honored by election to the National Academy of Sciences, and among this select group, belief in a personal God dropped to a shattering seven percent. 
Similar figures obtained for belief in personal immortality. 
I've not seen corresponding figures for elite scholars in other fields, such history or philosophy, but I'd be surprised if they were different. 
And I've already hinted what that something is. 
From what I've seen of TED, I think this may be the ideal place to launch it. 
Again, I fear it will cost money. 
I suspect that the word atheist itself contains or remains a stumbling block far out of proportion to what it actually means, and a stumbling block to people who otherwise might be happy to out themselves. 
Hence the phrase, tooth fairy agnostic. 
The onus is not on the rest of us to say why not. 
But we don't bother to say so, and this is why my friend uses tooth fairy agnostic as a label for what most people would call atheist. 
When atheists like Stephen Hawking and Albert Einstein use the word God, they use it of course as a metaphorical shorthand for that deep, mysterious part of physics which we don't yet understand. 
What I want to do this morning is share with you a couple of stories and talk about a different Africa. 
Already this morning there were some allusions to the Africa that you hear about all the time: the Africa of HIV/AIDS, the Africa of malaria, the Africa of poverty, the Africa of conflict, and the Africa of disasters. 
This is a story about the fact that people want their resources managed properly for their good, and not taken out to places where they'll benefit just a few of the elite. 
Because if we can get the 20 billion dollars sitting out there back, it may be far more for some of these countries than all the aid that is being put together. 
One in four sub-Saharan Africans is Nigerian, and it has 140 million dynamic people -- chaotic people -- but very interesting people. You'll never be bored. 
Not the International Monetary Fund. Not the World Bank, where I worked for 21 years and rose to be a vice president. 
You couldn't get it. You had to bribe. 
The smartest one, first to come in, was the MTN company of South Africa. 
Nigerians themselves began to develop some wireless telecommunications companies, and three or four others have come in. 
And we had GDP grow from an average of 2.3 percent the previous decade to about 6.5 percent now. 
We consolidated them from 89 to 25 banks by requiring that they increase their capital -- share capital. 
In tourism, in many African countries, a great opportunity. 
But you should know that this continent is not -- is a continent of many countries, not one country. 
But imagine the impact on a family: if the parents can be employed and make sure that their children go to school, that they can buy the drugs to fight the disease themselves. 
If we can invest in places where you yourselves make money whilst creating jobs and helping people stand on their own feet, isn't that a wonderful opportunity? Isn't that the way to go? 
Mixing African materials, such as we have, with materials from elsewhere. 
And so, to start helping that, I want to take us back to 1835. 
Four and a half million users around the world, contributing their leftover computer cycles, whenever their computer isn't working, by running a screen saver, and together sharing their resources to create a massive supercomputer that NASA harnesses to analyze the data coming from radio telescopes. 
What this picture suggests to us is that we've got a radical change in the way information production and exchange is capitalized. Not that it's become less capital intensive -- that there's less money that's required -- but that the ownership of this capital, the way the capitalization happens, is radically distributed. Each of us, in these advanced economies, has one of these, or something rather like it -- a computer. 
It used to be wireless was one person owned the license, they transmitted in an area, and it had to be decided whether they would be licensed or based on property. 
It was too expensive to have decentralized social production, to have decentralized action in society. That was not about society itself. 
It's that it's the first time that it's having major economic impact. 
You have to hire them to spend a lot of time. 
It's creating, and it's most visible when we see it as a new form of competition. 
Peer-to-peer networks assaulting the recording industry; free and open source software taking market share from Microsoft; Skype potentially threatening traditional telecoms; Wikipedia competing with online encyclopedias. 
And you see surfers, people who see this happening, and in some sense build it into a supply chain, which is a very curious one. Right? 
In 1918, a new virus appeared that killed some 50 to 100 million people. 
It spread like wildfire and some died within hours of developing symptoms. 
When they work, they can make history, but after a while you can barely hear them. 
Or polio? How many of you remember the iron lung? 
So let's explore how vaccines work. 
When you're pre-immunized, what happens is you have forces in your body pre-trained to recognize and defeat specific foes. 
Seth Berkley: Really cool video, isn't it? 
In addition, wild aquatic birds carry all known strains of influenza. 
Now luckily, that particular virus, although very scary at the time, did not transmit from person to person very easily. 
We've got these new antibodies we've identified, and we know that they latch onto many, many variations of the virus. 
But, you know, the research that has occurred from HIV now has really helped with innovation with other diseases. 
So far, animal tests indicate that such a vaccine could prevent severe disease, although you might get a mild case. 
It was a slow, cumbersome process that depended on chicken eggs, millions of living chicken eggs. 
Now think of where this leads us. 
New infectious diseases appear or reappear every few years. 
Will we be quick enough to react before millions die? 
You also can use adjuvants, which are chemicals you mix. 
I call them the Cheetah Generation. 
The Cheetah Generation is a new breed of Africans who brook no nonsense about corruption. 
Now, we're talking about a continent that is not poor. 
There are people who think that we should pour more money, more aid into this bowl which leaks. 
Let's take food imports. 
Just add that up, all these leakages. 
Kwame Nkrumah, Nyerere, Kenyatta -- somebody mentioned Idi Amin. 
By creating wealth? 
And you can't develop the informal and the traditional sectors without an operational understanding of how these two sectors work. 
Without the council the chief can't pass any law, and if the chief doesn't govern according to the will of the people he will be removed. 
So, it's quite appropriate that this section is called a marketplace. 
What Africans practiced was a different form of capitalism, but then after independence, all of a sudden, markets, capitalism became a western institution, and the leaders said Africans were ready for socialism. 
A bigger boat will mean more fish will be caught and landed. 
They're people getting out of poverty as fast as they can. 
And the journalist was asking him, Why is this so important? 
They disappeared. 
But a couple of weeks ago, I asked a bunch of friends to Google Egypt and to send me screen shots of what they got. 
And the thing is that the algorithms don't yet have the kind of embedded ethics that the editors did. 
Now I have to take off my shoes or boots to get on an airplane! 
We went in and sat down at the booth, and the waitress came over, made a big commotion over Tipper.  
She said Yes, that's former Vice President Al Gore and his wife Tipper. 
It's like beachcombing, you know? Every time the tide comes in and out, you find some more shells. 
It's an easy, visible target of concern, and it should be, but there is more global warming pollution that comes from buildings than from cars and trucks. 
Insulation, better design, buy green electricity where you can. 
A lot of us in here have made that decision and it is really pretty easy. 
It doesn't mean that if you are a Republican that I'm trying to convince you to be a Democrat. We need Republicans as well. This used to be a bipartisan issue, and I know that in this group it really is. Become politically active. 
We have to buy a lot of those ads. 
Again, the Republicans here, this shouldn't be partisan. 
And all the burning of oil and coal and gas, all the fossil fuels, have changed the atmosphere greatly. 
And one of the really most incredible things, I think, is that there's nobody out there trying to collect it at the site where it is densest. 
You see people who are really shell-shocked. 
So this is the Gulf of Mexico, sparkling place full of fish. 
You can see where the oil is concentrated at the surface, and then it is attacked, because they don't want the evidence, in my opinion. 
We heard that bacteria eat oil? 
So do sea turtles. 
When it breaks up, it has a long way to go before it gets down to bacteria. 
I heard the most incredible story today when I was on the train coming here. 
That's the story of thousands of people. 
The other thing about the Gulf that is important is that there are a lot of animals that concentrate in the Gulf at certain parts of the year. 
If it's not, it's certainly affecting their eggs and larvae, I would certainly think. 
So while the oil spill, the leak, the eruption, is a catastrophe, I think it's important to keep in mind that we've done a lot to affect what's in the ocean for a very, very long time. 
We're starting with something that's had a lot of stresses and a lot of problems to begin with. 
It's just ridiculous. 
I think that this is the result of gross negligence. 
The first offshore drills were called harpoons. 
Your sequence and mine are slightly different. 
I've got brown eyes; you might have blue or gray. 
I think we should say it all together. 
And still, you may not see the branches. 
But seriously, what's wrong with this? 
You already know enough to tell me -- what's wrong with this statement? 
And so let's do a series of comparisons to show you. 
I assure you, this is very tiny. It's just six microns on a side. 
And that's just a mouse brain -- it's a lot smaller than a human brain. 
I feel curiosity, and I feel wonder, but at times I have also felt despair. 
Why did I choose to study this organ that is so awesome in its complexity that it might well be infinite? 
And there's a lot of evidence that neural activity is encoding our thoughts, feelings and perceptions, our mental experiences. 
And if you put those two facts together, it means that your experiences can change your connectome. 
And it might true that just the mere act of thinking can change your connectome -- an idea that you may find empowering. 
And so we might even speak of the stream of consciousness. 
I'll give you a hint. It's a big number. 
Zach Kaplan: Keith and I lead a research team. 
Because the way that he presented the concept -- his approach was totally different than ours. He sold it to you as if it was for sale right now. 
Inventables Water Adventures dares you to launch yourself on a magnetically-levitating board down a waterslide so fast, so tall, that when you hit the bottom, it uses brakes to stop. 
In addition, you can see from the diagram on the right, the underpart of the slide would be an electromagnet. 
So I'm sure all you engineers know that even though aluminum is a metal, it's not a magnetic material. But something unexpected happens when you drop a magnet down an aluminum tube. 
It's perfectly clear, it's odorless, it's colorless. 
Shape-retaining is common in metal: you bend a piece of aluminum foil, and it holds its place. Contrast that with a plastic garbage can -- and you can push in the sides and it always bounces back. 
So my favorite idea for this is to apply the ink to a book. 
For our last technology, we worked again with Roman and his team at the Directors Bureau to develop a commercial from the future to explain how it works. 
And these dyes change color in response to odors. 
By detecting the odor of particular bacteria, or viruses, or even lung cancer, the dots will change and they can use software to analyze the results. 
Because every one of these six changed our understanding of what was possible in the world. Prior to seeing this, we would have assumed: a 10-foot pole couldn't fit in your pocket; something as inexpensive as ink couldn't sense the way paper is being bent; every one of these things -- and we're constantly trying to find more. 
Thank you. 
I mean, it's crucified. 
Spanish chef accused of cheating. 
A huge scandal for a few weeks. 
That is, until I went to Eduardo's farm in Extremadura, 50 miles north of Seville, right on the Portugal border. 
I'm just here to give the geese what they want. 
I was speaking too loudly. 
Right up to us, like right up to here. 
He doesn't. 
So he got rid of the electricity, he got rid of current on the inside and kept it on the outside, so it would protect them against coyotes and other predators. 
Part of the income for his farm. 
A big part of his income for his farm. 
That's how I've been trained. 
So I'm listening to all this, you know, and I'm like, is this guy for real? Is he making some of this up? 
Is he like, you know -- because he seemed to have an answer for everything, and it was always nature. 
Because, really, they want you to look at themselves, right? 
And we're sitting there, and I hear [clapping] from a distance, so I look over. 
To fly south in the winter and north when it gets warm? 
And the problem with saying that, of course, is that you know, at this point it risks hyperbole really easily. 
I'm really in love with him at this point. 
He takes the liver when he harvests the foie gras, he sticks them in this jar and he confits it. 
No salt, no pepper, no oil, no spices. 
We went back out for the final tour of the farm, and he showed me the wild pepper plants and the plants that he made sure existed on his farm for salinity. 
How come you don't give him this? 
I really was moved. 
The Pharaoh got wind of this and wanted to taste it. 
And the Jews, fearing for their life, had to come up with an ingenious idea, or at least try and satisfy the Pharaoh's wishes, of course. 
One in which we stop treating the planet as if it were some kind of business in liquidation. 
Whether we're talking about Brussels sprouts or foie gras. 
That is our poetry. That is our beautiful story. 
OK, I can see, if I found something, up, up, and they continue, up up up. 
You, you survive. It's OK. 
Nobody's obliged to be a genius. 
It's better, but nobody. 
This line of evolution is clearly positive. 
But if you take a lens, like that, this line is ack, ack, ack, ack, ack. Like that. 
There is different type of barbaria. 
That's why today I'm so ashamed to make this job. 
But I know that even I do it the best possible -- that's why I'm the best -- it's nothing. 
And because we must all work to finish this story. 
This scenario, of this civilization, was about becoming powerful, intelligent, like this idea we have invented, this concept of God. 
You go to the future back, back, back, back, like that. 
He would also supply me with tools. 
It was this great magic store. It was a crappy little building in Midtown, but you'd be in the elevator, the elevator would open -- there'd be this little, small magic store. You'd be in the magic store. 
And so I started thinking about Lost, and the stuff that we do, and I realized, oh my God, mystery boxes are everywhere in what I do! 
Jack: Get him out of here! Get him away from the engine! Get him out of here! 
Man: Hey! Hey! Hey, get away from -- JJA: Now, 10 years ago, if we wanted to do that, we'd have to kill a stuntman. 
And I often am like, you know, dude, today I'm out. I got nothing. You know?  
So there's that. In terms of the content of it, you look at stories, you think, well, what are stories but mystery boxes? 
Then there's the thing of mystery in terms of imagination -- the withholding of information. You know, doing that intentionally is much more engaging. 
Die Hard, right? Crazy, great, fun, action-adventure movie in a building. 
There are great scenes -- maybe not the most amazing dramatic scenes in the history of time, but pretty great scenes. 
Father: 'Cause I need it. 
Come on! So you think of Jaws -- so that's the kind of stuff that, like, you know, the investment of character, which is the stuff that really is inside the box, you know? 
It's why when people do sequels, or rip off movies, you know, of a genre, they're ripping off the wrong thing. 
You gotta rip off -- you know, if you rip something off -- rip off the character. 
Because ultimately, you know, the mystery box is all of us. So there's that. 
The moment the lights go down is often the best part, you know? 
And you're full of that amazing -- that feeling of excited anticipation. 
The stuff that I was lucky and begging for to get when I was a kid is now ubiquitous. 
When I did Mission: Impossible III, we had amazing visual effects stuff. 
So Eddie has this gun -- and he's the greatest guy -- he's this really sweet English guy. He's like, Sorry, I don't want to hurt you. 
And I realized that we had to do something 'cause it wasn't working just as it was. 
And Tom would know just how hard to push the gun. He wouldn't hurt himself. 
And in the Egyptian revolution, the Revolution 2.0, everyone has contributed something, small or big. They contributed something -- to bring us one of the most inspiring stories in the history of mankind when it comes to revolutions. 
It was actually really inspiring to see all these Egyptians completely changing. 
But the reason why everyone was silent is what I call the psychological barrier of fear. 
And that psychological barrier of fear had worked for so many years, and here comes the Internet, technology, BlackBerry, SMS. 
Platforms like YouTube, Twitter, Facebook were helping us a lot because it basically gave us the impression that, Wow, I'm not alone. 
They probably have the best life in the world. 
And everyone started to think that this guy could be my brother. 
What are we going to do? I don't know. 
In a few days, tens of thousands of people there -- angry Egyptians who were asking the ministry of interior affairs, Enough. 
But of course, they don't listen. 
In fact, one of the most ridiculous ideas was, Hey, let's have a silent stand. 
There was no leader. 
And I'm not going to talk about my experience, because this is not about me. 
The next day I was in Tahrir. 
When I saw that, I went back and I wrote on Facebook. 
But today I'm going to talk to you about something you can't see -- what's going on up in that little brain of hers. 
And therein lies a critical puzzle. 
Well, it's got to do with your brain. 
But we as adults are no longer absorbing those statistics. 
It takes a human being for babies to take their statistics. 
So this is little Emma. 
Just as the poets and writers described, we're going to be able to see, I think, that wondrous openness, utter and complete openness, of the mind of a child. 
Thank you. 
And early in the morning, I went into the ward. 
I watched her hands as she bathed an old man. 
And we run clinics in these very remote regions where there's no medical care whatsoever. 
And he walked in, and somebody said something to him, we realized he was deaf, and we looked into the rags, and there was this pair of eyes. 
The rags were unwrapped from a little girl whose body was massively burned. 
It was the young women, the health aids, who cleaned the wounds of this baby and dressed the wounds. 
And my family brought in a woman whose mother had been a slave to take care of me. 
And that woman did not have sentimental compassion. 
I had that condition, to a certain extent, from my own childhood illness. 
And in that paralysis, of course, our capacity for compassion is also paralyzed. 
The very word terror is global. 
So our work, in a certain way, is to address this imago, this kind of archetype that has pervaded the psyche of our entire globe. 
Hey, we live in a very noxious world. 
Why don't we train our children in compassion? 
Women have manifested for thousands of years the strength arising from compassion in an unfiltered, unmediated way in perceiving suffering as it is. 
And they have actualized compassion through direct action. 
He sees that the dog has this big wound on its leg. 
I was one of the founding members of the Axis of Evil Comedy Tour. 
Then there was Aron Kader, who was the Palestinian-American. 
And I opened it up, it said, Born in Iran. I'm like, Oh, come on, man. 
Ah ha! American, great. 
His name was Jabbar. 
He says, You wait. I'll be back, and he walked away. 
Like a couple months ago in Times Square in New York, there was this Pakistani Muslim guy who tried to blow up a car bomb. 
And one thing that happened there was also the Pakistani Taliban took credit for that failed car bombing. 
We just wanted to say we tried. 
Out of my way. Out of my way. Out of my way. 
You want some frozen yogurt? 
I have one gram, five gram, 10 gram. How many gram do you want? 
I put my two year-old on the slide; he went frrmrmm! He took off. 
I went down. I go, Where's my son? 
I go, I'm sorry. Then why were you staring at me? 
So I would like to show you something I've been working on. 
He had this wonderful trick where a rosebush would bloom right in front of your eyes. 
But it was his production of a butterfly that was the most beautiful. 
Marco Tempest: When asked about deception, he said this: Announcer: Magic is the only honest profession. 
I use a lot of tricks, which means that sometimes I have to lie to you. 
Girl in Phone: Hey, where are you? 
Lady: I'll be ready in just a minute, darling. 
Self-deception. 
Which is why in this vast and lonely cosmos, we are so wonderfully optimistic. 
Put a crab inside it. 
So, the guy replies, Yeah, I know, I know. 
I'm like a junior varsity cheerleader sometimes -- for swearing, awkward silences, and very simple rhyme schemes. 
[ i don't need 2 write it down. ]  I'm going to show you how terrorism actually interacts with our daily life. 
Now, as many of you may remember, the Red Brigades was a terrorist, Marxist organization which was very active in Italy from the 1960s until the mid-1980s. 
As part of their strategy the Red Brigades never spoke with anybody, not even with their lawyers. 
In 1993 they declared the end of the armed struggle. 
But this is exactly what I did because I wanted to know what had turned my best friend into a terrorist, and why she'd never tried to recruit me. 
So, because I am a trained economist and I think in economic terms, all of the sudden I thought, maybe there is something here. 
And there are three main stages. 
But above all, they started to do serious business with the world of crime. 
Rogue economics is a force which is constantly lurking in the background of history. 
And it actually happened again, with the fall of the Berlin wall. 
What does it mean? That means that it has a privilege that other countries do not have. 
This privilege is called seigniorage. 
No other country can do that. 
What the Patriot Act did was to prohibit U.S. bank, and U.S.-registered foreign banks from doing any businesses with off-shore facilities. 
It also gave the U.S. monetary authorities the right to monitor any dollar transaction taking place anywhere in the world. 
It was introduced only in the United States. 
In Europe, a similar legislation was not introduced. 
Cumulatively, I will have rowed over 8,000 miles, taken over three million oar strokes and spent more than 312 days alone on the ocean on a 23 foot rowboat. 
Now, some of you might be thinking, Hold on a minute. She doesn't look very much like an ocean rower. 
I thought there were them and there were us, and I was not one of them. 
And I think I knew from day one that it wasn't the right job for me. 
I'd gone through some changes. 
And I remember looking at these two versions of my obituary and thinking, Oh boy, I'm on totally the wrong track here. 
It was a bit like finishing a marathon and getting out of solitary confinement and winning an Oscar all rolled into one. 
Mostly, a baseball cap, rowing gloves and a smile -- or a frown, depending on whether I went backwards overnight -- and lots of sun lotion. 
So, because nobody in their straight mind would row straight past Hawaii without dropping in, I decided to cut this very big undertaking into three segments. 
But what do you do? 
I had a meeting with the president there, who told me about his exit strategy for his country. 
I even met one of them and she was just about my size. 
This is a world-wide community. 
I plan on being around for a long time, and when I'm 90 years old, I want to be happy and healthy. 
It's very difficult to be healthy on a planet where we've poisoned the earth and the sea and the air. 
And the idea here is that all our Eco-Heroes will log at least one green deed every day. 
And if you put creation and optimism together, you've got two choices that you can talk about. 
This has been a really galvanizing issue for a long time. 
This was a scheme by a team called THINK, a New York-based team, and then there was that one, which was the Libeskind scheme. 
We all want to go out and buy an Audi TT, don't we? 
It's in our nature to go ricocheting back and forth between this technocratic solution and a larger, sort of more romantic image of where we are. 
And these are two of the top architectural practices in the United States today. 
Yeah, it's one of those giant camera lenses that takes a picture of the outside world -- it's sort of a little movie, without any moving parts -- and projects it on a page, and you can see the world outside you as you walk around it. 
They all want to save money by building the same thing 500 times. 
Here's the little drawing that tells them how that works -- and that's what will happen in the end. 
So let's make architectural sand dunes and a beach cabana. 
So they went out and they modeled a computer model of a sand dune. 
Only one of whom had ever seen the plans before. 
It has its own built-in swimming pool, very, very cool. 
Here it is going across. And there, down the other side, and you get the same kind of grandeur. 
I want you to know the room you're looking at is stark white. 
Rosa Mexicano restaurant, where he transports us to the shores of Acapulco, up on the Upper West Side, with this wall of cliff divers who -- there you go, like that. 
Boo Hewerdine, Thomas Dolby, thank you very much for inviting me. It's been a blessing singing for you. 
Right now is the most exciting time to see new Indian art. 
This next artist, N.S. Harsha, actually has a studio right here in Mysore. 
He's putting a contemporary spin on the miniature tradition. 
He creates these fine, delicate images which he then repeats on a massive scale. 
This next artist is probably the alpha male of contemporary Indian art, Subodh Gupta. 
But I can only hope I've whet your appetite to go out and see and learn more about the amazing things that are happening in art in India today. 
So I'm going to show you some ways that we can violate your expectations. First of all, I want to show you the particular illusion here. I want you first of all when it pops up on the screen to notice that the two holes are perpendicular to each other. These are all perceptual tricks. These are real objects that I'm going to show you. Now I'm going to show you how it is done. I've looped the film here so you can get a very interesting experience. I want you to see how this illusion is constructed, and it's going to rotate so you see that it's inside out. Now watch, as it rotates back, how quickly your perception snaps. OK now. 
How many of you here see dolphins? Raise your hand if you see dolphins. OK, those people who raised their hands, afterwards, the rest of the audience, go talk to them, all right? Actually, this is the best example of priming by experience that I know. 
Now, something like this can be used because this is after all talk about design, too. This was done by Saatchi and Saatchi, and they actually got away with this ad in Australia. So, if you look at this ad for beer, all those people are in sort of provocative positions. But they got it passed, and actually won the Clio awards, so it's funny how you can do these things. 
You can violate your expectations about experience. Here is an outside water fountain that I created with some friends of mine, but you can stop the water in drops and -- actually make all the drops levitate. This is something we're building for, you know, amusement parks and that kind of stuff. 
Well, there's analog and digital. Thought that was appropriate here. 
Now, I'm going to skip ahead since I'm sort of running [behind]. I want to show you quickly what I've created, some new type of illusions. I've done something with taking the Pixar-type illusions. So you see these kids the same size here, running down the hall. The two table tops of the same size. 
And it's interesting, by doing this in this sort of rendered fashion, how much stronger the illusions are. Any case, I hope this has brought you a little joy and happiness, and if you're interested in seeing more cool effects, see me outside. I'd be happy to show you lots of things. 
So I want to share with you a couple key insights about complexity we're learning from studying nature that maybe are applicable to other problems. 
I'm here today, as June said, to talk about a project that my twin sister and I have been doing for the past three and half years. 
This is our invocation in crochet of a bleached reef. 
So we went and taught the techniques. We did workshops and lectures. 
The frilly crenulated forms that you see in corals, and kelps, and sponges and nudibranchs, is a form of geometry known as hyperbolic geometry. 
And the only way that mathematicians know how to model this structure is with crochet. It happens to be a fact. 
Before hyperbolic geometry, mathematicians knew about two kinds of space: Euclidean space, and spherical space. 
And they have different properties. 
Think of the surface of a sphere -- just like a beach ball, the surface of the Earth. 
And on the surface of a sphere, a straight line is the biggest possible circle you can draw. 
To a mathematician if there are two answers, and the first two are zero and one, there is another number that immediately suggests itself as the third alternative. 
This nearly drove mathematicians bonkers because, like you, they're sitting there feeling bamboozled. 
I've stitched Euclid's parallel postulate on to the surface. 
Here's two creatures who've never heard of Euclid's parallel postulate -- didn't know it was impossible to violate, and they're simply getting on with it. 
I once asked the mathematicians why it was that mathematicians thought this structure was impossible when sea slugs have been doing it since the Silurian age. 
And that's true. But it also goes deeper than that. 
And so, too, we've discovered that there is an infinite taxonomy of crochet hyperbolic creatures. 
But we found that when we deviated from the specific setness of the mathematical code that underlies it -- the simple algorithm crochet three, increase one -- when we deviated from that and made embellishments to the code, the models immediately started to look more natural. 
And kindergarten was actually a very formalized system of education, established by a man named Friedrich Froebel, who was a crystallographer in the 19th century. 
He developed a radical alternative system of engaging the smallest children with the most abstract ideas through physical forms of play. 
OK, so how do you study this mysterious organ? 
So let me give you a few striking examples of this. 
And if you look, tucked away inside the inner surface of the temporal lobes -- you can't see it there -- is a little structure called the fusiform gyrus. 
But there's another rare syndrome, so rare, in fact, that very few physicians have heard about it, not even neurologists. 
Now, the most common interpretation of this, which you find in all the psychiatry textbooks, is a Freudian view, and that is that this chap -- and the same argument applies to women, by the way, but I'll just talk about guys. 
Thank God, or you would all be sexually aroused when you saw your mother. 
It's very ingenious, as all Freudian arguments are --  -- but didn't make much sense because I have seen the same delusion, a patient having the same delusion, about his pet poodle. 
There are neurons there that are sensitive to faces. 
Now, when that area's damaged, you lose the ability to see faces, right? 
And then the message cascades into the amygdala, and then goes down the autonomic nervous system. 
There's no delusion through the phone. 
And in fact, one student asked me the other day, Do they get phantom PMS? 
Now, why would a phantom limb be paralyzed? 
How do you unlearn the learned paralysis, so you can relieve him of this excruciating, clenching spasm of the phantom arm? 
He had a brachial avulsion, so the nerves were cut and the arm was paralyzed, lying in a sling for a year, and then the arm was amputated. 
My first patient came in, and he looked in the mirror, and I said, Look at your reflection of your phantom. 
He knows it's a mirror reflection, but it's a vivid sensory experience. 
And he says, Oh my God, my phantom is moving again. I don't believe this! 
And then I said, Close your eyes. 
So, I said, Look, Derek -- well, first of all, the guy can't just go around carrying a mirror to alleviate his pain -- I said, Look, Derek, take it home and practice with it for a week or two. 
I said, What's gone? 
These people muddle up their senses. 
Why does this happen? 
Now remember -- why does this happen? 
And that is, there is an abnormal gene, a mutation in the gene that causes this abnormal cross wiring. 
So, every brain region is wired to every other region, and these are trimmed down to create the characteristic modular architecture of the adult brain. 
It's because you're all doing a cross-model synesthetic abstraction, meaning you're saying that that sharp inflection -- ki-ki, in your auditory cortex, the hair cells being excited -- Kiki, mimics the visual inflection, sudden inflection of that jagged shape. 
Now, this is very important, because what it's telling you is your brain is engaging in a primitive -- it's just -- it looks like a silly illusion, but these photons in your eye are doing this shape, and hair cells in your ear are exciting the auditory pattern, but the brain is able to extract the common denominator. 
Sorry about that. 
My talk will be in two parts. I'll talk first as an astronomer, and then as a worried member of the human race. 
So that's another project for NASA. 
It landed on the surface. This is pictures taken on the way down. 
There's scant chance of life there -- that's because there's been no time for the nuclear fusion in stars to make silicon and carbon and iron, the building blocks of planets and of life. 
And until we have that synthesis, we won't be able to understand the very beginning of our universe because when our universe was itself the size of an atom, quantum effects could shake everything. 
You want to not only synthesize the very large and the very small, but we want to understand the very complex. 
We depend on stars to make the atoms we're made of. 
We depend on chemistry to determine our complex structure. 
The geometric mean of the mass of a proton and the mass of the sun is 50 kilograms, within a factor of two of the mass of each person here. 
If I was not a self-effacing Brit, I would mention the book myself, and I would add that it's available in paperback. 
First, any scientific discovery has benign consequences as well as dangerous ones. 
He persuaded Einstein, as his last act, to sign the famous memorandum of Bertrand Russell. 
We need not just campaigning physicists, but we need biologists, computer experts and environmentalists as well. 
I wrote my book, Our Final Century, as a scientist, just a general scientist. But there's one respect, I think, in which being a cosmologist offered a special perspective, and that's that it offers an awareness of the immense future. 
The stupendous time spans of the evolutionary past are now part of common culture -- outside the American Bible Belt, anyway --  but most people, even those who are familiar with evolution, aren't mindful that even more time lies ahead. 
The unfolding of intelligence and complexity still has immensely far to go, here on Earth and probably far beyond. 
But let's suppose some aliens had been watching our pale blue dot in the cosmos from afar, not just for 40 years, but for the entire 4.5 billion-year history of our Earth. 
Then other things happened even more abruptly. 
Right now, he's in a forest in Georgia. 
The Bonobo, although shorter than us and their arms still longer, is more upright, just as we are. 
Slim-bodied, Bonobos are by nature very gentle creatures. 
This is Kanzi and I, in the forest. 
We need more sticks, too. 
Good job. 
Video: Kanzi now makes his tools, just as our ancestors may have made them, two-and-a-half million years ago -- by holding the rocks in both hands, to strike one against the other. 
Kanzi's rock is from Gona, Ethiopia and is identical to that used by our African ancestors two-and-a-half million years ago. 
She's also saying the name of that, with her voice. 
Panbanisha began writing the lexigrams on the forest floor. 
SS : Very nice. Beautiful, Panbanisha. 
The curved line is very similar to the lexigram. 
The next symbol Panbanisha writes represents collar. 
Researchers began to record what Panbanisha said, by writing lexigrams on the floor with chalk. 
Then he peers eagerly into his mother's mouth. 
Narrator: Kanzi plays the xylophone; using both hands he enthusiastically accompanies Dr. Sue's singing. 
Kanzi and Panbanisha are stimulated by this fun-filled environment, which promotes the emergence of these cultural capabilities. 
So we have a bi-species environment, we call it a panhomoculture. 
Here's a site which allows you to look at recovery spending in California. 
In fact, this is the graph of the number of data sets in the repositories of data.gov, and data.gov.uk. 
And then you can select also other things on the map to see what other factors, like the threat level. 
The light blue is refugee camps these volunteers had spotted from the [satellite images]. 
So, if you've been involved in that at all, I just wanted to say: Whatever you've been doing, whether you've just been chanting, Raw data now! 
A man-made moon visible by ordinary citizens, it inspired awe and pride that humans had finally launched an object into space. 
Within a year, Congress funded huge weapons increases, and we went from 1,200 nuclear weapons to 20,000. 
Support for engineering, math and science -- education in general -- boomed. 
And so, if you'll put up with this, I would like to enlist your help with a first experiment today. The experiment is -- and I notice, by the way, that when you applauded, that you did it in a typical North American way, that is, you were raucous and incoherent. 
So what do we make of that? First of all, we know that you're all brilliant. 
Do you need to be alive? I mean, that's a spooky thought, right? 
And you see that in nature. 
Keep in mind that, although it looks as if each individual is acting to cooperate, what's really going on is a kind of selfish Darwinian behavior. 
Each is scattering away at random to try to save its scales or feathers. 
As I say, if you're in a swarm, your odds of being the unlucky one are reduced as compared to a small group. 
There doesn't seem to be anything mystical about this. 
Specifically, it's male fireflies who are all flashing in perfect time together, in perfect synchrony, to reinforce a message to the females. 
Scientific papers were published saying it was twitching eyelids that explained it, or, you know, a human being's tendency to see patterns where there are none. 
But I hope you've convinced yourself now, with this nighttime video, that they really were very well synchronized. 
Okay, well, the issue then is, do we need to be alive to see this kind of spontaneous order, and I've already hinted that the answer is no. 
Now, you might think that's a bizarre idea. 
He would shoot his light saber across the abyss, making a blade of light, and then scamper across on this blade of light. 
Think of the bridge as being like this platform. 
Narrator: The most dramatic and shocking footage shows whole sections of the crowd -- hundreds of people -- apparently rocking from side to side in unison, not only with each other, but with the bridge. 
This synchronized movement seemed to be driving the bridge. 
But how could the crowd become synchronized? 
Allan McRobie is a bridge engineer from Cambridge who wrote to me, suggesting that a bridge simulator ought to wobble in the same way as the real bridge -- provided we hung it on pendulums of exactly the right length. 
Their instructions: just walk normally. 
That indeed, a mass extinction was underway in our fields, in our agricultural system. 
So if I were to going to show you all the beans in the world, and I had a slide like this, and I switched it every second, it would take up my entire TED talk, and I wouldn't have to say anything. 
And I said, You know what? These apples come from your ancestors, and your ancestors gave them the greatest honor they could give them. 
The bad news is they're extinct. 
The coldest growing seasons of the future, hotter than the hottest of the past. 
And then there are just daily disasters that take place in these buildings, financial problems and mismanagement and equipment failures, and all kinds of things, and every time something like this happens, it means extinction. We lose diversity. 
Because, quite literally, if agriculture doesn't adapt to climate change, neither will we. 
Important health message: blogging may be hazardous to your health, especially if you are a male. 
This is male blogging posture sitting, and the result is, For greater comfort, men naturally sit with their legs farther apart than women, when working on laptop. 
This is a very serious research, that you should read the underline. 
Wi-Fi enables you to avoid the processor. And there are some enhanced protection measures, which I would like to share with you, and I would like, in a minute, to thank Philips for helping. 
I'm really troubled by that. But anyway that's -- the basis of the thing that I want to share with you today, though, is that right back to where we inspire people who will be our great leaders later. 
Aviation Week asked me to make a list of who I thought were the movers and shakers of the first 100 years of aviation. 
Well, what happened when I was a little kid was -- some pretty heavy stuff too. 
And this was at a time when Mars was a hell of a lot more interesting than it is now. We thought there'd be animals there; we knew there were plants there; the colors change, right? 
These two new airplanes are the same speed as the DC8 that was done in 1958. 
Here's the biggie, and that is, you don't have innovation cycles if the government develops and the government uses it. 
Computers were used for artillery first, then IRS. 
Keep that in mind. I put down innovation -- I've looked for innovation cycles in space; I found none. 
And I think I want to talk a little bit about why we had the courage to go out and try that as a small company. 
But I think once it does, we will find solutions, and very quickly, you'll see those resort hotels in orbit. 
There's a group of people that have come forward -- and you don't know all of them -- but the ones that have come forward were inspired as young children, this little three- to 15-year-old age, by us going to orbit and going to the moon here, right in this time period. 
Paul Allen, Elan Musk, Richard Branson, Jeff Bezos, the Ansari family, which is now funding the Russians' sub-orbital thing, Bob Bigelow, a private space station, and Carmack. 
There were a couple of examples here. 
And I'm talking about if you've got a baby now, or if you've got a 10-year-old now. 
Relatively soon, you'll be able to buy a ticket and fly higher and faster than the highest-performance military operational airplane. It's never happened before. 
You can fly with Russian hardware. This is available because a Russian space program is starving, and it's nice for them to get 20 million here and there to take one of the seats. 
And every dollar that flows into that will be spent more efficiently by a factor of 10 to 15. And what that means is before we know it, the progress in human space flight, with no taxpayer dollars, will be at a level of about five times as much as the current NASA budgets for human space flight. 
And this realization is allowing us to reconceptualize the way that we actually approach these diseases by controlling angiogenesis. 
Now I'm going to focus on cancer because angiogenesis is a hallmark of cancer, every type of cancer. 
This is a tumor: dark, gray, ominous mass growing inside a brain. 
Dr. Judah Folkman, who was my mentor and who was the pioneer of the angiogenesis field, once called this cancer without disease. 
And, unfortunately, this late stage of cancer is the one at which it's most likely to be diagnosed, when angiogenesis is already turned on and cancer cells are growing like wild. 
We call this antiangiogenic therapy, and it's completely different from chemotherapy because it selectively aims at the blood vessels that are feeding the cancers. 
Well, I've just shown you two very different types of cancer that both responded to antiangiogenic therapy. 
And we subsequently treated more than 600 dogs. 
It had already spread to his lymph nodes, so we used an antiangiogenic skin cream for the lip and an oral cocktail, so we could treat from the inside as well as the outside. 
And, in fact, the first pioneering treatments for people, as well as dogs, are already becoming available. 
But the real question is: How well do these work in practice? 
So here's actually the patient survival data from eight different types of cancer. 
But for other tumors and cancer types, the improvements have only been modest. 
And as a doctor, I know that once a disease progresses to an advanced stage, achieving a cure can be difficult, if not impossible. 
But I actually took a completely opposite approach and began asking: What could we be adding to our diet that's naturally antiangiogenic, that could boost the body's defense system and beat back those blood vessels that are feeding cancers? 
This inhibits abnormal angiogenesis by 60 percent. 
And you can see clearly that the teas vary in their potency from less potent to more potent. 
This means there's food synergy. 
Here's some more data from our testing. 
Now, in the lab, we can simulate tumor angiogenesis represented here in a black bar. 
Soy, parsley, garlic, grapes, berries; I could go home and cook a tasty meal using these ingredients. 
And, like a tumor, fat grows when blood vessels grow. 
Albert Szent-Gyorgi once said that, Discovery consists of seeing what everyone has seen, and thinking what no one has thought. 
Right. And along those lines, for people who might have risk factors for cancer, would you recommend pursuing any treatments sort of prophylactically or simply pursuing the right diet with lots of tomato sauce? 
Well, you know, there's abundant epidemiological evidence. 
I've designed puzzles for books, printed things. 
But at best they can reach for something more and create a memorable impression. 
It's all figure. 
Not strictly an ambigram in the conventional sense. 
Now, if you could pick up the black vase, it would look like the figure on top. 
Here, let's make it a little harder. Still pretty easy. 
I wanted to make a sequel. 
Garry Trudeau calls himself an investigative cartoonist. 
And I said, Well, how on Earth can you come up with a sequence of the base pairs in DNA? 
And you have to choose pieces that overlap on the edge. 
But it takes some persistence. 
First of all, you know, for a long time computer games meant things like Doom, where you're going around shooting things, very violent games, very fast, aimed at teenage boys. Right? That's who plays computer games. 
Well, guess what? That's changing. 
And it's a game you play with other people. 
A lot of people do Sudoku. In fact some doctors prescribe it. 
Anybody? 
What I want to talk about today is this particular cell, or grouping of cells, that is in each and every one of us. 
I want you to imagine that this particular grouping of cells is central to the evolution of our species and the continuation of the human race. 
And I want you imagine that at some point in history a group of powerful people invested in owning and controlling the world understood that the suppression of this particular cell, the oppression of these cells, the reinterpretation of these cells, the undermining of these cells, getting us to believe in the weakness of these cells and the crushing, eradicating, destroying, reducing these cells, basically began the process of killing off the girl cell, which was, by the way, patriarchy. 
To be a leader means not to be a girl. 
And I'd also like to say that the irony of course, is that denying girl, suppressing girl, suppressing emotion, refusing feeling has lead thus here. 
Where we have now come to live in a world where the most extreme forms of violence, the most horrific poverty, genocide, mass rapes, the destruction of the Earth, is completely out of control. 
In the Congo, for those of you who don't know, there has been a war raging for the last 12 years, a war that has killed nearly six million people. 
Listening to the story of 80-year-old women who were tied to chains and circled, and where groups of men would come and rape them periodically, all in the name of economic exploitation to steal the minerals so the West can have it and profit from them. 
That shattering, that opening of my girl cell, that kind of massive breakthrough of my heart allowed me to become more courageous, and braver, and actually more clever than I had been in the past in my life. 
I want to change the verb. 
I want the verb to be educate, or activate, or engage, or confront, or defy, or create. 
I know a 14-year-old girl in the Netherlands, for example, who is demanding that she take a boat and go around the entire world by herself. 
And I want to talk about a girl that I just met recently in Bukavu, who was impregnated by her rapist. 
She taught girls what a healthy vagina looked like, and what a mutilated vagina looked like. 
And she said, Well, now, I need a house. 
The whole community has bought in to what she's doing. 
She imagined her father killing her on one hand, and Mama Agnes greeting her, with the hope that she would greet her when she got to the house. 
I had the privilege of being in the hut when she was reunited with her father and reconciled. 
In that hut, we walked in, and her father and his four wives were sitting there, and her sisters who had just returned because they had all fled when she had fled, and her primary mother, who had been beaten in standing up for her with the elders. 
And that is the power of transformation. 
But I really want to do it for each and every person here, to value the girl in us, to value the part that cries, to value the part that's emotional, to value the part that's vulnerable, to understand that's where the future lies. 
I rejoice that it's still in my body. 
I am an emotional creature. 
I can take you back. 
Nothing's been diluted. 
I love, hear me, I love that I can feel the feelings inside you, even if they stop my life, even if they break my heart, even if they take me off track, they make me responsible. 
Your body is covered with fractals. 
Let's see, first iteration, second, third, fourth. 
So Native Americans use a combination of circular symmetry and fourfold symmetry. 
It is not the same pattern at two different scales. 
In some cases, there would actually be algorithms, and very sophisticated algorithms. 
So I tracked down one of the folks who makes these things, this guy in Mali just outside of Bamako, and I asked him, How come you're making fractal fences? Because nobody else is. 
So these guys are right on target for a practical use of scaling technology. 
The most complex example of an algorithmic approach to fractals that I found was actually not in geometry, it was in a symbolic code, and this was Bamana sand divination. 
And finally, out of desperation, I said, Well, let me explain Georg Cantor in 1877. 
And then you take this symbol, and you put it back in so it's a self-generating diversity of symbols. 
And I know Brian Eno says there's not enough Africa in computers, but you know, I don't think there's enough African history in Brian Eno. 
We got a small seed grant, just to see if folks would be willing to work with us on this; we're very excited about the future possibilities for that. 
Actually, the reason that Google was such a success is because they were the first ones to take advantage of the self-organizing properties of the web. 
 They stood together   under a tree in tall grass   on TV   telling the world   their story   We will be left to wander   and fade away   Soldiers came and took our husbands   at the break of day   We will live on   then fade away   Soldiers came and killed our children   at the break of day   Women of hope   Women of change   Women of war and pain   I believe   I believe the almighty knows each and every one of you   by your name   Women of hope   Women of change   Women of love, joy, no shame   You've got something this little life   can never take away   Running through the darkness of night   with a child by her side   Oh Lord, won't you give them   a shining armor of light   Oh Lord, won't you give them   a shining armor of light   Daybreak brings a sign of new life   with the power to stand   Crossing the border   she said, You will grow free on this land   Women of hope   Women of change   Women of war and pain   I can feel your power   in these words she said   If you're feeling helpless   help someone   If you're feeling helpless   help someone   Nobody really knows   how far they will go   to keep on living   Nobody really knows   how far they will go   to keep on giving   and forgiving   Aung San Suu Kyi   living under house arrest   for her peaceful protest   under house arrest   for her peaceful protest   When her people asked her for a message   she said   If you're feeling helpless   help someone   If you're feeling helpless   help someone   If you're feeling helpless   help someone   If you're feeling helpless   help someone  Now we know the words, let's sing. 
 And that guy, Seven Years in Tibet, turned out to be a Nazi.  Sweeney: Yeah. 
 Founding fathers all had slaves.  Sweeney: I know. 
 Lewis Carroll I'm sure did Alice.  Sweeney: What?! 
Anyway, I like Oprah -- I like her girlfriendy-ness, I like her weight issues, I like how she's transformed talk television, I like how she's brought reading back to America -- but there was something that happened the last two weeks that was ... I call it the Soon-Yi moment: it is the moment when I cannot continue supporting someone. 
It makes What the Bleep Do We Know seem like a doctoral dissertation from Harvard on quantum mechanics -- that's how bad it is. 
I want to try to share just a little bit of that with you in this presentation. 
The challenge, of course, is to answer this question: what permits this extraordinary performance of animals that allows them basically to go anywhere? 
And if we could figure that out, how can we implement those designs? 
Think about it. If you were an engineer and I told you that you had to build an automobile, but it had to start off to be this big, then it had to grow to be full size and had to work every step along the way. 
Or think about the fact that if you build an automobile, I'll tell you that you also -- inside it -- have to put a factory that allows you to make another automobile. 
They all produce the pattern of a pogo stick. How is that true? 
We took their advice and we modeled the animals moving in the horizontal plane as well. We took their three legs, we collapsed them down as one. 
It didn't decrease its preferred speed at all. 
It has six legs -- there are the tuned, springy legs. 
Robert Full: It'll go on different surfaces -- here's sand -- although we haven't perfected the feet yet, but I'll talk about that later. 
Like if we had a piece of tape now, we'd peel it this way. 
They do this with their toes. It's bizarre! This peeling inspired iRobot -- that we work with -- to build Mecho-Geckos. 
And here's the peeling action of the Mecho-Gecko. 
Here's an individual hair with a little split end there. 
No, force is too low. Do they do it by electrostatics? 
And just recently we've made a breakthrough, where we now believe we're going to be able to create the first synthetic, self-cleaning, dry adhesive. Many companies are interested in this. 
Thank you. 
We proved that most of the ammonia refrigeration tables are wrong. 
Most people have cooking fires in the world, whether it's camel dung or wood. 
And the problem is this: Women are not making it to the top of any profession anywhere in the world. 
We also have another problem, which is that women face harder choices between professional success and personal fulfillment. 
And I said, Are you telling me that I am the only woman to have pitched a deal in this office in a year? 
In the high-income part of our workforce, in the people who end up at the top -- Fortune 500 CEO jobs, or the equivalent in other industries -- the problem, I am convinced, is that women are dropping out. 
This is hard. I feel guilty sometimes. 
My brother is kind of busy. 
Because what the data shows, above all else, is one thing, which is that success and likeability are positively correlated for men and negatively correlated for women. 
This is the complication. 
And that's a problem, because we have to make it as important a job, because it's the hardest job in the world to work inside the home, for people of both genders, if we're going to even things out and let women stay in the workforce. 
Message number three: don't leave before you leave. 
And literally from that moment, she doesn't raise her hand anymore, she doesn't look for a promotion, she doesn't take on the new project, she doesn't say, Me. I want to do that. 
My generation really, sadly, is not going to change the numbers at the top. 
If you want to get at the big part -- I mean from a public health level, where my training is -- you're looking at behavioral issues. 
We talk about it in terms of engagement, or non-compliance. 
So the crux of it comes down to this notion of decision-making -- giving information to people in a form that doesn't just educate them or inform them, but actually leads them to make better decisions, better choices in their lives. 
So they asked them at the beginning, Do you think you'll actually be able to stick with this program? 
So fear showed up as not really the driver. 
It was a notion that really came out of Albert Bandura's work, who studied whether people could get a sense of empowerment. 
It's an amazing notion. 
And I had to explain, They're trying to scare people. 
Again, Bandura recognized this years ago, decades ago. 
Okay, I know where I sit. I know where I'm situated. 
And that doesn't just work for me in terms of abstract numbers -- this overload of health information that we're inundated with. 
Finally, we need to be presented with a clear point of action. 
The choice in this case is pretty simple. 
We either keep going fast, or we slow down. 
They reduce speeds by about five to 10 percent. 
They last for about five miles, in which case we put our foot back on the pedal. 
And who among us would actually say that people who do try to read this actually get anything out of it? 
They went to the nutritional information box and saw that what works for cereal, works for our food, actually helps people understand what's in their food. 
They're just not for us. They're not for people. They're not for patients. 
This is the worst presented information. 
And then we go a further step -- we tell them what they can do. 
So we take the bold step of putting the cholesterol information on the same page, which is the way the doctor is going to evaluate it. 
The last one I'll show you is a PSA test. 
And the only acceptable answer is --  -- yes. 
Okay. On the other hand by placing your finger in a different position on the fingerboard it changes the string length, that changes the frequency of the sound wave. 
And now, I realize that as the musician, we human beings, we have a great mind, artistic heart and skill that can change the 16th-century technology and a legendary design to a wonderful entertainment. 
But ... although some of them were quite up there for me. 
And I realized we actually had quite a bit in common: both of us were disseminating the genes of one species and not another, and both of us -- probably, if I can imagine the bee's point of view -- thought we were calling the shots. 
We have a grammar that suggests that's who we are; that we are sovereign subjects in nature, the bee as well as me. 
And that's when I got the idea, which was, Well, what would happen if we kind of looked at us from this point of view of these other species who are working on us? 
And agriculture suddenly appeared to me not as an invention, not as a human technology, but as a co-evolutionary development in which a group of very clever species, mostly edible grasses, had exploited us, figured out how to get us to basically deforest the world. 
And suddenly everything looked different. 
I'm a dupe. I'm a dupe of the lawns, whose goal in life is to outcompete the trees, who they compete with for sunlight. 
So, let me go through what you gain when you look at the world this way, besides some entertaining insights about human desire. 
As an intellectual matter, looking at the world from other species' points of view helps us deal with this weird anomaly, which is -- and this is in the realm of intellectual history -- which is that we have this Darwinian revolution 150 years ago ... 
This is a farm in the Shenandoah Valley of Virginia. 
the idea is he's got six different species of animals, as well as some plants, growing in this very elaborate symbiotic arrangement. 
And I'll show you, if you take this approach, what you get, OK? 
So, one day, cattle in a pen. 
The Eggmobile is a very rickety contraption -- it looks like a prairie schooner made out of boards -- but it houses 350 chickens. 
So the chickens do their kind of little breakdance and they're pushing around the manure to get at the grubs, and in the process they're spreading the manure out. 
And within four or five weeks, he can do it again. 
Put that in play. 
So when they lose a lot of leaf mass, they shed roots; they kind of cauterize them and the roots die. 
And they're labeled by color right now, by language. 
But you can also see, there are places where there's not so much. 
But it didn't have quite the same pickup in the U.S. 
And so I guess the U.S. finally, finally started to like it, too. 
And it's something I'm very excited to be a part of. 
But it was a dream of his, and we, basically, when people really want to do something, well, we generally let them. 
You can see, even though the U.S. is still the majority here -- though, by the way, search-wise, it's only about 30 percent of our traffic -- but it's already going to Japan, and the U.K., and Europe, and all the rest of the countries. 
And -- well, I'll leave you in suspense. 
So one of the things -- both Sergey and I went to a Montessori school, and I think, for some reason, this has been incorporated in Google. 
And Sergey mentioned Orkut, which is something that, you know, Orkut wanted to do in his time, and we call this -- at Google, we've embodied this as the 20 percent time, and the idea is, for 20 percent of your time, if you're working at Google, you can do what you think is the best thing to do. 
And this was kind of a surprise to me, but we found that as long as you keep the 100 things in your head, which you did by writing them down, that you could do a pretty good job deciding what to do and where to put your resources. 
So this is a new -- how many of you use the Google Toolbar? 
And the nice thing about this, we have a self-serve program, and many thousands of websites have signed up, and this let's them really make money. And I -- you know, there's a number of people I met -- I met this guy who runs a conservation site at a party, and he said, You know, I wasn't making any money. 
And so there is this blog of a young person who was kind of depressed, and he said, You know, I'm sleeping a lot. 
And I think we're really lucky to have that kind of business model because everyone in the world has access to our search, and I think that's a tremendous, tremendous benefit. 
So, I'm also fairly determined to try and build a game layer on top of the world. 
It's not very good. It's cluttered. 
If you're not, too bad. There's nothing you can do. 
It's actually about using dynamics, using forces, to influence the behavior of where you are, what you do there, how you do it. 
Come here at a certain time, get your drinks half off. 
This game dynamic is so powerful that it doesn't just influence our behavior, it's influenced our entire culture. 
They will return like clockwork at different times. 
Modern Warfare, one of the most successful selling games of all time. 
It's also used in more conventional settings and can be used more consciously in conventional settings. 
School -- and remember, I made it through one year, so I think I'm qualified to talk on school -- is a game, it's just not a terribly well-designed game, right. 
There are statuses. I mean, what is valedictorian, but a status? 
That sucks. Why not level-up? 
And it's very powerful. 
I mean, you see this is a paladin level 10, and that's a paladin level 20, and if you were going to fight, you know, orcs on the fields of Mordor against the Raz al Ghul, you'd probably want to be the bigger one, right. 
Their most dedicated players, it's like a full-time job. 
And we've introduced a progression dynamic into it, where, by going to the same place over and over, by doing challenges, by engaging with the business, you move a green bar from the left edge of the screen to the right edge of the screen, and you eventually unlock rewards. 
So we have to use this one carefully. 
It's a woodworking machine, or at least a piece of one, and my task was to make this thing a little bit more modern, a little bit easier to use. 
Now this gentleman, Isambard Kingdom Brunel, designed many great things in his career in the 19th century, including the Clifton suspension bridge in Bristol and the Thames tunnel at Rotherhithe. 
His greatest creation runs actually right through here in Oxford. 
He imagined an integrated transportation system in which it would be possible for a passenger to embark on a train in London and disembark from a ship in New York. 
And I'd like to talk about some of those just for the next few minutes. 
So it took a team working in India with patients and community health workers to understand how a PDA and an application on a PDA might replace those technicians in a fitting and diagnostic service. 
And the faster we do that, the faster our ideas evolve. 
This is the manufacturing facility for one of their biggest cost breakthroughs. 
They went from retreating to the nurse's station to discuss the various states and needs of patients, to developing a system that happened on the ward in front of patients, using a simple software tool. 
And this is just one of thousands of opportunities in healthcare alone. 
But, again, we are in the midst of massive change. 
How might we improve access to safe drinking water for the world's poorest people, and at the same time stimulate innovation amongst local water providers? 
What kinds of questions do we think design thinking could be used to tackle? 
There is a hash tag there that you can use, #CBDQ. 
Well, since I couldn't have my tea the way I wanted it, I ordered a cup of coffee, which the waiter brought over promptly. 
But from the Japanese perspective, it's their duty to protect those who don't know any better --  in this case, the ignorant gaijin -- from making the wrong choice. 
As I do so, I hope you'll start thinking about some of your own assumptions and how they were shaped by your backgrounds. 
It is essential for success. 
The kids got to choose which pile of anagrams they would like to do, and they even got to choose which marker they would write their answers with. 
In reality, the kids who were told what to do, whether by Miss Smith or their mothers, were actually given the very same activity, which their counterparts in the first group had freely chosen. 
In fact, some of the kids were visibly embarrassed when they were told that their mothers had been consulted. 
The first-generation children were strongly influenced by their immigrant parents' approach to choice. 
Or, you could say that the individual's preferences were shaped by the preferences of specific others. 
Americans train their whole lives to play spot the difference. 
A number of my studies have shown that when you give people 10 or more options when they're making a choice, they make poorer decisions, whether it be health care, investment, other critical areas. 
They'd already picked out a name for her, Barbara, after her grandmother. 
Unable to breathe on her own, she was put on a ventilator. 
This narrative promises so much: freedom, happiness, success. 
Instead of replacing one story with another, we can learn from and revel in the many versions that exist and the many that have yet to be written. 
No matter where we're from and what your narrative is, we all have a responsibility to open ourselves up to a wider array of what choice can do, and what it can represent. 
It brings us that much closer to realizing the full potential of choice, to inspiring the hope and achieving the freedom that choice promises but doesn't always deliver. 
So I brought these two bottles of nail polish into the laboratory, and I stripped the labels off. 
Well, good morning. 
And it's not just what these are doing to each other, but it's what the audience thinks that really frames this matter. 
To get a sense of this, and it's been a theme we've talked about all week, I recently talked to a bunch of tweeners. 
Girl 5: Because they're going to lose all their money eventually. 
Doesn't work out too well for them, they lose money. 
The rocket's position is shown by the trajectory that we're now looking at. 
And as it reaches the peak of its trajectory, the velocity, you will notice, has dropped off to a minimum. 
But like, let's imagine we took the latest Pentium processor, the latest Core 2 Extreme, which is a four-core processor that Intel's working on, it will be our laptop tomorrow. 
So -- and we haven't even worked out the cooling needs. 
Every effort has been made and will continue to be made to find a new pattern, new selling arrangements and new types of programs that may arrest the declining revenues. 
It may yet be possible to eke out a poor existence for radio, but I don't know how. 
It was the dawn of interactive TV, and you may have noticed they wanted to sell you the Winky Dink kits. 
Pete, I could use any ordinary open-source crayon, why do I have to buy theirs? 
But we will discuss this scandal, because this man, Jack Berry, the host of Winky Dink, went on to become the host of Twenty One, one of the most important quiz shows ever. 
We'll talk a little bit more about him later. 
It's the era of big business and data centers for computing. 
It all happened within five miles of where I'm standing, at Stanford University, between 1960 and 1975. 
HyperCard was the first program to introduce the public to hyperlinks, where you could randomly hook to any kind of picture, or piece of text, or data across a file system, and we had no way of explaining it. 
Once it was only a dream of technoids and a few long-forgotten politicians. 
And further stimulus came with the deregulation of the cable television industry, and the re-regulation of the cable television industry. 
Voice 2: Next on the gourmet pet channel, decorating birthday cakes for your schnauzer. 
We come into the era of the dotcom, the World Wide Web, and I don't need to tell you about that because we all went through that bubble together. 
Voice 1: You'll have to stay here in the safe house until we get word the terrorist threat is over. 
And media companies realize the audience is important also. 
And I think this is beginning to happen in the entertainment business. 
They think of the old medium, because the old medium is always the content of the new medium, as movies tend to be the content of TV, and as books used to be the content, novels used to be the content of movies. 
And I used three criteria: the first was, I thought I'd talk about real design within reach, design that's free, not design not quite within reach, as we're fondly known by our competition and competitors, but stuff that you can find on the streets, stuff that was free, stuff that was available to all people, and stuff that probably contains some other important messages. 
Wholly inconsistent with San Francisco or New York. 
How did I get started in this business? 
In Italy, you know, almost everything, kind of, looks good. 
I've come across some other just, kind of, curious relationships of bollards on the street that have different interpretations, but -- these things amuse me. 
And I came down one day, and all the bikes were red. 
And at that moment, the sun came out, and through this perforated screen, a pattern was cast over these bodies and they kind of faded into the rear, and we left the restaurant kind of feeling O.K. about stuff. 
Cities are the place where we're most likely to encounter diversity and to mix with other people. 
And it's a welcoming area, I think, inclusive of diversity, reflective of diversity, and I think this marriage of both technology and art in the public sector is an area where the U.S. 
And I decided I had to get closer than just drawing fantasy airplanes. 
You had to learn what made an airplane stay in the air. 
I had to learn mathematics and mechanics and all this sort of thing. 
So I chose furniture. 
And I chose chairs specifically because I knew something about them. 
There are drawbacks to this. 
One is: you can't accommodate everybody. 
So he said, Well I'll come over and look at it. 
So here we are. 
So if you watch this chair as I recline, the headrest comes up to meet my neck. 
You cant hit your elbow on bottom. 
What does that mean, my environment? 
And you realize that you spend it in a variety of different places. 
You spend it at rest and you spend it at work. 
So then I decided to leave that part of the world, and I was going to go to the mid-west. 
Very nice, and there my older, senior lungs, as I like to call them, I filled with particulate matter, carbon dioxide and very high doses of ozone. 
Okay? Almost like the highest in the nation. 
So, what's wrong with this picture? 
They haven't asked me what kind of the quality of the drinking water that I put in my mouth or the food that I ingest into my stomach. 
Now, I've circled the places where I've been. 
Oh, not so lucky. 
They give us some sense of what's going to be our train wreck. 
And all of those black dots are all of the toxic release inventories that are monitored by the EPA. 
This is what the physician would have in front of him and her when we enter that exam room instead of just the pink slip that said I paid at the counter. Right? 
And I believe that geographic information can make both you and me very healthy. Thank you. 
So ... 
They take you to gruff-ex-cop-on-his-fourth-marriage.dad. 
I'd be like some kind of Internet genius, and me, I'd like to upgrade to deity and maybe just like that -- pop! -- I'd go wireless. 
I could zip through your servers and firewalls like a virus until the World Wide Web is as wise, as wild and as organized as I think a modern-day miracle/oracle can get, but, ooh-eee, you want to bet just how whack and un-PC your Mac or PC is going to be when I'm rocking hot-shit-hot-shot-god.net? 
You don't say a prayer. 
Thank you, TED. 
So, for roughly 300 years, the hot debate in architecture was whether the number five or the number seven was a better proportion to think about architecture, because the nose was one-fifth of your head, or because your head was one-seventh of your body. 
So, whenever you lost information, you'd move to symmetry; whenever you added information to a system, you would break symmetry. 
Now, the only way we could design that, or possibly construct it, is by using a calculus-based definition of the form. 
It also is much more dynamic, so that you can see that the same form opens and closes in a very dynamic way as you move across it, because it has this quality of vector in motion built into it. 
You just need to incorporate a certain number of traits in a very kind of genetic way. 
I won't go into too much description of any of these projects, but what you can see is that the escalators and elevators that circulate people along the face of the building are all held up by 122 structural trusses. 
So, working with Bentley and MicroStation, we've written a custom piece of software that networks all of the components together into these chunks of information, so that if we change any element along the length of the building, not only does that change distribute through each one of the trusses, but each one of the trusses then distributes that information down the length of the entire facade of the building. 
But what it gives us is a harmonic and synthesized relationship of all these components, one to another. 
At the same time, there's a person paying 30,000 dollars for a 300-series car, and a person paying 70,000 dollars for a 700 series, and that person paying more than double doesn't want their car to look too much like the bottom-of-the-market car. 
So they have to also discriminate between these products. 
To go back to architecture, what's organic about architecture as a field, unlike product design, is this whole issue of holism and of monumentality is really our realm. 
And to do that, we tried to connect up the five towers into a single system. 
With United Architects, also, we made a proposal for the European Central Bank headquarters that used the same system, but this time in a much more monolithic mass, like a sphere. 
So, for these interiors, like this shop in Stockholm, Sweden, or this installation wall in the Netherlands at the Netherlands Architecture Institute, we could use the texture that the tool would leave to produce a lot of the spatial effects, and we could integrate the texture of the wall with the form of the wall with the material. 
What I'd like to do is just drag us all down into the gutter, and actually all the way down into the sewer because I want to talk about diarrhea. 
And in particular, I want to talk about the design of diarrhea. 
If instead transmission to another host requires host mobility, then we expect that the winners of the competition will be the milder organisms. 
So, one way you can test is just look at all diarrheal bacteria, and see whether or not the ones that tend to be more transmitted by water, tend to be more harmful. 
After a few days of infection you end up having -- the fecal material really isn't so disgusting as we might imagine. 
And if you took a drop of that water, you might find a million diarrheal organisms. 
If it didn't produce a lot of this toxin, then you might find a smaller number. 
So the task is to try to figure out how to determine whether or not you could get an organism like this to evolve towards mildness by blocking waterborne transmission, thereby allowing the organism only to be transmitted by person-to-person contact, or person-food-person contact -- both of which would really require that people be mobile and fairly healthy for transmission. 
One would be to take a lot of different strains of this organism -- some that produce a lot of toxins, some that produce a little -- and take those strains and spew them out in different countries. 
So, we don't want to run an experiment like that. 
Now, I don't know how that happened, and I didn't have anything to do with it, I promise you. 
The goal is to turn this around. 
If you could cause an evolutionary decrease in virulence by cleaning up the water supply, you should be able to get an evolutionary decrease in antibiotic resistance. 
And I want to give you just one more example, because we've talked a little bit about malaria. 
In the case of malaria, what we'd like to do is mosquito-proof houses. 
The only pathogens that get transmitted are the ones that are infecting people that feel healthy enough to walk outside and get mosquito bites. 
So, I don't really have time to talk about those things, but I did want to put them up there, just to give you a sense that there really are solutions to controlling the evolution of harmfulness of some of the nasty pathogens that we're confronted with. 
And the data really do support this: that you actually do get the virus evolving towards mildness. 
Anyhow, I'll end that there, and thank you very much. 
Our hands are amazing instruments. 
And when they're missing, it's a barrier. 
Every time you contract a muscle, it emits a little electricity that you can record with antennae or electrodes and use that to operate the motorized prosthesis. 
Well the body works by starting a motor command in your brain, going down your spinal cord, out the nerves and to your periphery. 
And we take the nerve away from your chest muscle and let these nerves grow into it. 
Now you think, Close hand, and a little section of your chest contracts. 
And Jesse's a good crane operator, and he did okay by our standards. 
So this is really exciting for us, because now we have a portal, a portal, or a way to potentially give back sensation, so that he might feel what he touches with his prosthetic hand. 
We've also gone on with what was initially our primary population of people with above-the-elbow amputations. 
You had to concentrate a whole lot. 
Then we fit her with a prosthesis. 
A little faster. And much more easy, much more natural. 
There's a lot of information in those nerve signals, and we wanted to get more. 
And here you can see, on Jesse's chest, when he just tried to do three different things, you can see three different patterns. 
Obviously, that's heavy for Amanda. 
It took just about probably three to four hours to get it to train. 
So we're really excited, because now we're getting to a clinically practical device. 
I want you to watch closely. 
That's Claudia, and that was the first time she got to feel sensation through her prosthetic. 
Once we can do it that small, it's a lot easier making them bigger. 
So Amanda came jet-lagged, she's using the arm, and everything goes wrong. 
And none of those problems could I have dealt with, but I have a really bright research team. 
But first, I want to start by saying that we need a new operating system, for the oceans and for the Earth. 
Because we've only doubled the population of the Earth since the 1960s -- a little more than doubled -- but we have 6.7 billion people in the world, and we all like to consume. 
Humans, without fins: 90 meters, 3.5 minutes. 
So penguins are amazing athletes. 
And, more importantly, they're well-dressed. 
If you go and do it now, the national parks count about 500. 
So we have a quarter of the penguins that we did 40 years ago. 
When we have extreme El Nino events, you see all this red, and you see no green out here around the Galapagos. 
things die when there's no food. 
And if you look along the coast of Argentina, where I work now, at a place called Punta Tombo -- the largest Magellanic penguin colony in the world down here about 44 degrees south latitude -- you see that there's great variation here. 
And so we have started a global penguin society to try to focus on the real plight of penguins. 
They ended up swimming through ballast water that had oil in it. 
So we ended up spending nine years convincing the government that there were lots of oiled penguins. 
And, of course, all of this then leads to a vicious cycle and you can't raise a lot of chicks. 
Turbo has taken to knocking on the door with his beak, we let him in and he comes in here. 
So this is Turbo. 
And now he's looking at the other guy, saying, You are really weird. 
Most important thing is: Only you can change yourself, and only you can change the world and make it better, for people as well as penguins. 
But let's talk about the 90 percent of the world population that will never leave the place in which they were born. 
Over 50 new countries were born. 
And they share a lengthy land border. 
In fact, the World Bank predicts that Russia's population is declining towards about 120 million people And there is another thing that you don't see on this map. 
Stalin, Khrushchev and other Soviet leaders forced Russians out to the far east to be in gulags, labor camps, nuclear cities, whatever the case was. 
As a result, in the Russian far east today, which is twice the size of India, you have exactly six million Russians. 
Because globalization opens up all kinds of ways for us to undermine and change the way we think about political geography. 
Remember the 40 dots on the nighttime map that show the hubs of the global economy? 
And now many of you have been reading in the news how people are looking to China to lead the rebound, the economic rebound, not just in Asia, but potentially for the world. 
So China is becoming the anchor of the economy in the region. 
China has signed military agreements with many countries in the region. 
All of this is happening without firing a shot. 
So what can we do to think about borders differently in this part of the world? 
What I want to present to you is what I call state building, day by day. 
The Kurds for 3,000 years have been waging a struggle for independence, and now is their chance to finally have it. 
Now remember Kurdistan is landlocked. 
And therefore it has to have amicable relations with them. 
The lesson from Kurdistan and from Palestine is that independence alone, without infrastructure, is futile. 
The last time that was the case was actually a century ago, during the Ottoman Empire. 
But today the Hejaz Railway lies in tatters, ruins. 
More pipelines means more silk roads, instead of the Great Game. 
In 2004, 15 new countries joined the E.U. 
Even if these regions aren't part of the E.U., they are becoming part of its sphere of influence. 
So what's next? Where are we going to see borders change and new countries born? 
If we were to look at all of Africa we could most certainly acknowledge far more, tribal divisions and so forth. 
It has three ongoing civil wars, the genocide in Darfur, which you all know about, the civil war in the east of the country, and south Sudan. 
But if you look in nature, you see that different kinds of animals can have really different lifespans. 
Now these animals are different from one another, because they have different genes. 
And we didn't study any of these animals. 
Is it miserable? It doesn't seem to be. 
And if you look at the tissues of the animal, they're starting to deteriorate. 
And now here is the daf-2 mutant. 
But it's really more like this: let's say you're a 30 year-old guy -- or in your 30s -- and you're a bachelor and you're dating people. 
She says, I'm 60. 
Well as you know, genes, which are part of the DNA, they're instructions to make a protein that does something. 
It says that aging is subject to control by the genes, and specifically by hormones. 
So after we made our discoveries with little C. elegans, people who worked on other kinds of animals started asking, if we made the same daf-2 mutation, the hormone receptor mutation, in other animals, will they live longer? 
They hardly get cancer, and when they do it's not as severe. 
So in a daf-2 mutant -- you see that I have the X drawn here through the receptor. 
The receptor isn't working as well. 
And many of these different genes, we've shown, actually contribute to the long lifespan of the daf-2 mutant. 
Then they promote the uptake of nutrients. 
So he doesn't actually do anything himself. 
We don't know the details of how this works, but we do know then that FOXO genes can impact the lifespan of people. 
But in this case, there's already a drug called rapamycin that binds to the TOR protein and inhibits its activity. 
So people take it to prevent organ transplants from being rejected. 
You could change the genes in principle. 
So it might be that you would just have to fine tune it very carefully to get the benefits without getting any problems. 
I wasn't suggesting that I was going to go and do it, but ... 
Just move to one side for us, if you would. 
And when you look at these 70 year-old turtles, you can't tell the difference, just by looking, between those turtles and 20 year-old turtles. 
They're more resistant to these kinds of stresses. 
They're not getting old in the dog's lifespan. 
Here's another good article about a new campaign opposing privatization of transit without any contact information for the campaign. 
The message seems to be that the readers are most likely to want to eat, maybe read a book, maybe see a movie, but not be engaged in their community. 
They all have heroes who were chosen. 
This helps me understand why a lot of people have trouble seeing themselves as leaders because it sends all the wrong messages about what leadership is about. 
As long as we're teaching our kids that heroism starts when someone scratches a mark on your forehead, or someone tells you that you're part of a prophecy, they're missing the most important characteristic of leadership, which is that it comes from within. 
Which leads us to the last one, which is our elections. 
So I was privileged to train in transplantation under two great surgical pioneers: Thomas Starzl, who performed the world's first successful liver transplant in 1967, and Sir Roy Calne, who performed the first liver transplant in the U.K. 
in the following year. 
But not all patients on the transplant wait list are so fortunate. 
And the gift of life has been extended from brain-dead donors to living, related donors -- relatives who might donate an organ or a part of an organ, like a split liver graft, to a relative or loved one. 
No doubt, I was informed, the consent had been obtained. 
And at that time, stem cell research had gained momentum, following the isolation of the world's first human embryonic stem cells in the 1990s. 
And as it turns out, fat is one of the best sources of adult stem cells. 
If this research is successful, it may then reduce the need to research and sacrifice human embryos. 
It is a fact that when our organs or tissues are injured, our bone marrow releases stem cells into our circulation. 
There are 170 clinical trials investigating the role of stem cells in heart disease. 
We are very happy because we have the opportunity to have this angel in the world -- not only in our country, Venezuela, but in our world. 
He has given us the possibility to have dreams and to make true the dreams. 
And here are the results of this wonderful project that is The System in Venezuela. 
He buys a ring, she buys a dress. 
These optimistic young bastards promise to honor and cherish each other through hot flashes and mid-life crises and a cumulative 50-lb. weight gain, until that far-off day when one of them is finally able to rest in peace. 
And some of them will even still be enjoying each others' company when neither of them can chew solid food anymore. 
What do the folks who make it all the way to side-by-side burial plots have in common? 
And they try to pinpoint what it is that sets them apart from their miserable neighbors and friends. 
It's obvious that this leads to marital bliss because, women, we care a great deal about being thin and good looking, whereas men mostly care about sex ... 
So instead of all that laborious dieting and exercising, we just need to wait for them to get fat, maybe bake a few pies. 
These are couples who can find good in any situation. 
This is an actual study, and let me clarify. 
Now I don't know how old all of you are, but when I was a kid, your parents took pictures with a special kind of camera that held something called film, and, by God, film was expensive. 
I'm serious. 
So I'm obviously going to need fatten him up. 
I have a doppelganger. 
That's exactly what I do -- optical mind control. 
Even if we could measure what every cell is doing at all times, we would still have to make sense of the recorded activity patterns, and that's so difficult, chances are we'll understand these patterns just as little as the brains that produce them. 
To make progress, we need to break the code. 
The approach works so well that we can write purely artificial messages directly to the brain. 
These headless bodies can live for about a day, but they don't do much. 
Now for an intelligent being like our fly, this policy is not written in stone but rather changes as the animal learns from experience. 
So we bred flies whose brains were more or less randomly peppered with cells that were light addressable. 
Whenever it comes up to the midpoint, it pauses, it carefully scans the odor interface as if it was sniffing out its environment, and then it turns around. 
These 12 cells, as shown here in green, send the output to a brain structure called the mushroom body, which is shown here in gray. 
If the connection is strong, the motors will turn on and the fly will initiate a turn. 
In a situation like this, we would expect the Critic to speak up and to tell the Actor to change its policy. 
So the next time the fly finds itself facing the same odor again, the connection is strong enough to turn on the motors and to trigger an evasive maneuver. 
Now, in terms of biomimetics, as human technologies take on more of the characteristics of nature, nature becomes a much more useful teacher. 
Now, being a biologist, I was very curious about this. 
These are gecko toes. 
And the individual has 2 billion of these nano-size split ends. 
So what they did was they asked us an important question. 
They're climbing up a wall, or a tree. 
Now that's real time. You can't see anything. 
So they do it with this active tail as they swing around. 
Okay, there it goes. 
It oscillates its tail up and down like a dolphin. 
But watch its front legs. Can you see what they are doing? 
So now we were really confused, because there are no reports of it gliding. 
One of the problems is coming up with the right target. 
There's not a lot of science behind that one either. 
Now, why is this so complicated? 
Volcanoes eject aerosols into the atmosphere. 
So here's the thing. It sounds like a simple question. 
That's the Ross Sea Ice Shelf on the right there. 
You can go then and study corals and figure out how often do you see this. 
And it been growing for about 600 years. 
You can see some of the coral cores there on the right. 
That the place where, during an earthquake in 1954, this marine terrace was lifted up out of the ocean very quickly, and it was lifted up about six to seven meters. 
And so now you can walk through a coral reef without getting wet. 
There's a whole family of curves here. 
Some of the records show lower temperatures than others. 
And there is natural variability caused by the Sun, caused by El Ninos. 
There's consequences for carbonate organisms. 
The main framework material of coral reefs is calcium carbonate. 
And on coral reefs, where some of the main framework organisms disappear, we will see a major loss of marine biodiversity. 
You know, these are things that we have good physiological reasons to expect to see stressed caused by this transience. 
You have to go back about 30 million years to find a time when CO2 levels were double what they are today. 
That's the reason that they're not able to respond or adapt to this rapid acidification that's going on right now. 
And I think that may very well be true, so I'll close with this. 
And a long time ago -- well, about 40 years ago -- my mom had an exchange student. 
This is Donna at the Statue of Liberty. 
But I'd like to talk about another way to travel that doesn't require a ship or an airplane, and just requires a movie camera, a projector and a screen. 
And that's what I'm going to talk to you about today. 
So I'm the living product of two cultures coming together. 
To change the Arab nightmare into the American dream. 
Josh Rushing: The night they showed the POWs and the dead soldiers -- Al Jazeera showed them -- it was powerful because America doesn't show those kinds of images. 
And it upset me on a profound level that I wasn't bothered as much the night before. 
Jehane Noujaim: I was overwhelmed by the response of the film, for we didn't know whether it would be able to get out there. 
And I saw this with audiences. 
Man: God forbid! 
If you were not Abu Azzam's daughter ... 
In this life, we're dead anyway. 
Woman: Perhaps. We have to turn it into a moral war. 
Zvika: I said, OK, that's Bat-Chen, that's my daughter. 
Are you sure she is dead? 
When we got to here, we saw three Israeli military jeeps parked on the side of the road. 
George: But there is a teacher that is in charge? 
But after thinking logically about it, I didn't find any reason why not to meet them and let them know of our suffering. 
We see that there are Palestinians who suffered a lot, who lost children, and still believe in the peace process and in reconciliation. 
Yes. Yes! 
But I've been trying to think about ways to give power to these independent voices, to give power to the filmmakers, to give power to people who are trying to use film for change. 
There's Just Vision, that are working with Palestinians and Israelis who are working together for peace, and documenting that process and getting interviews out there and using this film to take to Congress to show that it's a powerful tool to show that this is a woman who's had her daughter killed in an attack, and she believes that there are peaceful ways to solve this. 
There's Working Films and there's Current TV, which is an incredible platform for people around the world to be able to put their -- yes, it's amazing. 
There are people that want to be a part of this global day of film, to be able to provide a platform for independent voices and independent films to get out there. 
In the year 1919, a virtually unknown German mathematician, named Theodor Kaluza suggested a very bold and, in some ways, a very bizarre idea. 
That is in addition to left, right, back, forth and up, down, Kaluza proposed that there might be additional dimensions of space that for some reason we don't yet see. 
How is it that the Sun, 93 million miles away, [that] somehow it affects the motion of the Earth? 
He, like Einstein, was in search of what we call a unified theory. 
Maybe I can play the same game with the other known force, which was, at that time, known as the electromagnetic force -- we know of others today, but at that time that was the only other one people were thinking about. 
Now, but for those of us who are a little bit more practically minded, two questions immediately arise from his observation. 
It's very hard to see it, though, from far away. 
So many people worked on it, but by the '40s, certainly by the '50s, this strange but very compelling idea of how to unify the laws of physics had gone away. 
In our era, a new approach to unify the laws of physics is being pursued by physicists such as myself, many others around the world, it's called superstring theory, as you were indicating. 
And there you see unification, because matter particles, electrons and quarks, radiation particles, photons, gravitons, are all built up from one entity. 
One of the other predictions of string theory -- no, that's not one of the other predictions of string theory. 
And that question is this: when we look around the world, as scientists have done for the last hundred years, there appear to be about 20 numbers that really describe our universe. 
Not yet. 
But we believe the answer for why those numbers have the values they do may rely on the form of the extra dimensions. 
This is an example of something known as a Calabi-Yau shape -- name isn't all that important. 
But, as you can see, the extra dimensions fold in on themselves and intertwine in a very interesting shape, interesting structure. 
And the idea is that if this is what the extra dimensions look like, then the microscopic landscape of our universe all around us would look like this on the tiniest of scales. 
And this is an experiment that may test for them in our lifetime. 
And yet, even at this most fundamental level, context is everything. 
And now you see it. 
There is no a priori reason why an H has to go between that W and A. 
So you don't do it again. 
Your brain is learning. And it's learning that the right side of its visual field is under red illumination; the left side of its visual field is under green illumination. 
I take it from your response they don't look the same anymore. Right? 
Why? Because if the tile in that shadow were in fact in shadow, and reflecting the same amount of light to your eye as the one outside the shadow, it would have to be more reflective -- just the laws of physics. 
Which means we can bring all this information together to create some incredibly strong illusions. 
And they land on the flower. They stick their tongue in there, called a proboscis, and they drink sugar water. 
So they are using the relationships between the colors to solve the puzzle, which is exactly what we do. 
So, illusions are often used, especially in art, in the words of a more contemporary artist, to demonstrate the fragility of our senses. 
Instead, color tells us something completely different, that the brain didn't actually evolve to see the world the way it is. 
We can't. Instead, the brain evolved to see the world the way it was useful to see in the past. 
Well, one of the ways we do in my lab and studio is we translate the light into sound and we enable people to hear their visual world. 
So, working with kids, they created images, thinking about what might the images you see sound like if we could listen to them. 
So, now, what I want to do: I'm going to put the middle nine surfaces here under yellow illumination by simply putting a filter behind them. 
The question is, Is that an illusion? 
And they're different. 
And you can make your own decision, and then you'll decide whether the invasion was worth it. 
That's how you think about security -- in terms of the trade-off. 
I'll give you the short answer. 
Now most of the time, that works. 
We've developed this ability because it makes evolutionary sense. 
The unknown is perceived to be riskier than the familiar. 
If you hear a lot about tiger attacks, there must be a lot of tigers around. 
When something is so common, it's no longer news -- car crashes, domestic violence -- those are the risks you worry about. 
There's no real word for stuff that makes us secure, but doesn't make us feel secure. 
And there are two ways to do this. 
Enough real world examples helps. 
Security theater's exposed when it's obvious that it's not working properly. 
If, for example, terrorism almost never happens, it's really hard to judge the efficacy of counter-terrorist measures. 
It doesn't change; it's real. 
We couldn't have a germ theory of disease before we invented the microscope to see them. 
Where do we get these models? We get them from others. 
Think of models of terrorism, child kidnapping, airline safety, car safety. 
Models can come from industry. 
For us, we're very facile around electricity. 
Now it had a name, which made it scarier than the regular flu, even though it was more deadly. 
As the novelty wore off, the months went by, there was some amount of tolerance, people got used to it. 
We have feeling, model, reality. 
New models that extend long periods of time are hard. 
Global warming is a great example. 
Strong feelings can create a model. 
And that's okay. 
Now, what we want is people to get familiar enough with better models -- have it reflected in their feelings -- to allow them to make security trade-offs. 
Remember I said feeling, model, reality; I said reality doesn't change. It actually does. 
Someone else bought it and died. 
All human life, all life, depends on plants. 
And plants sometimes find it rather difficult to move because there might be cities and other things in the way. 
So if all human life depends on plants, doesn't it make sense that perhaps we should try to save them? 
All the genetic information for future generations of plants are held in seeds. 
So all around the world people are doing the same thing. 
This is at least 100 times bigger. 
How much does it cost? 
The future research is How can we find the genetic and molecular markers for the viability of seeds, without having to plant them every 10 years? 
And it was found close to here, Stanford. 
Some lasted 14-and-a-half minutes. 
Couldn't do it. Could not wait. 
Put it back. 
They would walk around. They would play with their skirts and pants. 
The sales person that -- the customer says, I want that. And the person says, Okay, here you are. 
Then you sell a lot more. 
The rules of engagement: how to talk, when to talk, and how to deal with them. 
We just have to persevere. 
Everybody seems to agree with that. 
But now, as we prepare to talk, we understand how little we know. 
Should we talk to Hamas? 
Now my diplomats are instructed to talk to all these groups. 
But talking can be done in different ways. 
We make a distinction between talking from a diplomatic level and talking at the political level. 
In his memoirs, Long Road to Freedom, he wrote that he survived during those years of captivity because he always decided to look upon his oppressor as also being a human being, also being a human being. 
Now South African friends will know that was very painful. 
Dialogue is not easy -- not between individuals, not between groups, not between governments -- but it is very necessary. 
But that strategy seldom takes you very far. 
We could never have done the convention against anti-personnel landmines and the convention that is banning cluster munitions unless we had done diplomacy differently, by engaging with civil society. 
How are we going to solve climate change through negotiations, unless we are able to make civil society and people, not part of the problem, but part of the solution? 
What is the legitimacy of diplomacy, of the the solution we devise as diplomats if they cannot be reflected and understood by also these broader forces of societies that we now very loosely call groups? 
The diplomatic toolbox is actually full of different tools we can use to strengthen our communication. 
In my country, I have seen how the council of Islamist groups and Christian groups came together, not as a government initiative, but they came together on their own initiative to establish contact and dialogue in times where things were pretty low-key tension. 
How are we going to settle and build a bigger We to deal with our issues if we don't improve our skills of communication? 
So, I'm in Chile, in the Atacama desert, sitting in a hotel lobby, because that's the only place that I can get a Wi-Fi connection, and I have this picture up on my screen, and a woman comes up behind me. 
And, you know, Excuse me! 
This is a Gentoo penguin. And she was still skeptical. 
So, one of the things that I love to do is travel around the world and look at archaeological sites. 
And, one thing that isn't a mystery, actually, was when I grew up -- because when I was a little kid, I'd seen these pictures -- and I thought, Well, why that look on the face? 
In fact, in many of the statues, when you excavate them, the backs are totally smooth -- almost glass smooth. 
We're trying to get all of the permissions to get everything all set, to get it going. 
In this case, we're working with a major medical foundation to develop inexpensive ways of diagnosing diseases in developing countries. 
Various parts of the world will have a cult food that people get enormously attached to -- there's tremendous traditions, there's secrecy. 
And I'm trying to use a very scientific approach. 
So, I do a lot of work on dinosaurs. 
Not the same one, actually. This is a cast, which I had bought, and then, after buying the cast, I found my own, and I don't have room for two. 
It's something that can inform all sorts of science in unexpected ways. 
These days, bits are cheap. Unfortunately, that means you've got to spend more time sorting through them. 
Then, a little bit later, I start getting some pictures like this. 
That's kind of what it's like. 
And you know, when I was at Microsoft, that was so engrossing, and the whole industry was expanding so much, that it did tend to crowd out most of the other things in my life. 
The sound made flicking a wall switch off is of a completely different nature. 
Or the recorded crowing of a rooster? 
That's the end of that. 
Take-out sandwich shops, film processing drop-offs, peep-shows and necktie stores. 
You were late for school again this morning. 
We have fading memories of that provisional temple, erected each time an adult sat down. 
The next story is called The Haverpiece Collection A nondescript warehouse, visible for a moment from the northbound lanes of the Prykushko Expressway, serves as the temporary resting place for the Haverpiece collection of European dried fruit. 
Do you remember wandering as a child through those dark wooden storefront galleries? 
A shoe made of apricot leather for the daughter of a czar. 
And that this, in fact, will be the way that we treat cancer in the future. 
It is very useful in certain circumstances. 
It's the one theory that the biologists ever really got right. 
You predict a black hole, and you look out the telescope and there it is, just like you said. 
And so we can discover things that probably you could have found by looking at enough of your relatives, but they may be surprising. 
And Applied Minds gets a lot of calls from people who want help with their problems, and I didn't think this was a very likely one to call back, so I kept on giving him to the delay list. 
And I'll show you what that protein measurement looks like. 
We sort out the proteins -- from left to right is the weight of the fragments that we're getting, and from top to bottom is how slippery they are. 
And you can see how the lines occur in these little groups of bump, bump, bump, bump, bump. 
And many people in this audience probably wouldn't be alive if doctors didn't do this. 
Well, it's in the kitchen. Oh, you must have kitchen water. 
So your house is dealing with leaks all the time, but it's fixing them. It's draining them out and so on. 
And so I gave this talk and said, Why don't you guys do this? 
But design a program of treatments specifically for you and help your body guide back to health -- guide your body back to health. 
So thank you very much. 
Now, I want to tell you a quick story. 
Super Bowl. I heard it over here. It was the date of the Super Bowl. 
And there were even some polls that were saying she was going to go all the way. 
But when we talked to people, it appeared that a funnel effect had happened in these tribes all across the United States. 
But not just work. It's within these tribes that societies get built, that important things happen. 
If you focus in on a group like this -- this happens to be a USC game -- and you zoom in with one of those super satellite cameras and do magnification factors so you could see individual people, you would in fact see not a single crowd, just like there is not a single crowd here, but you would see these tribes that are then coming together. 
Not all tribes are the same, and what makes the difference is the culture. 
This is the kid who shot up Virginia Tech. 
So, this other book that Steve mentioned, that just came out, called The Three Laws of Performance, my colleague, Steve Zaffron and I, argue that as people see the world, so they behave. 
Well, if people see the world in such a way that life sucks, then their behavior will follow automatically from that. 
Now, my birthday is coming up shortly, and my driver's license expires. 
The amount of world-changing behavior that would happen? 
A whole group of people communicating that way, talking that way. 
Now, we find these in places where really smart, successful people show up. 
It was not Christmas time. There was a Christmas tree. 
There is, in fact, another stage. 
There was no road map. No one had ever done anything like this before. 
And people, at the time, feared that South Africa would end up going the way that Rwanda has gone, descending into one skirmish after another in a civil war that seems to have no end. 
What about Martin Luther King? 
In fact, Martin Luther King's most famous line was at Stage Three. 
48 percent of working tribes say, these are employed tribes, say, I'm great and you're not. 
But you don't leave them where you found them. Okay? 
I don't know anybody. 
We move people from Stage One to Stage Two by getting them in a new tribe and then, over time, getting them connected. 
But we're not done yet. Because then how do we go from Stage Four, which is great, to Stage Five? 
Incidentally, they did pull it off. 
And they released the first-ever world poll. 
We're here to celebrate compassion. 
But kindness is an everyday byproduct of all the great virtues. 
And in that light, for the religious, compassion also brings us into the territory of mystery -- encouraging us not just to see beauty, but perhaps also to look for the face of God in the moment of suffering, in the face of a stranger, in the face of the vibrant religious other. 
The communities that Jean Vanier founded, like Jean Vanier himself, exude tenderness. 
And compassion can also have those qualities. 
And compassion is unleashed in wider and wider circles by signs and stories, never by statistics and strategies. 
Rachel Naomi Remen says this is an important and empowering story for our time, because this story insists that each and every one of us, frail and flawed as we may be, inadequate as we may feel, has exactly what's needed to help repair the part of the world that we can see and touch. 
This is going to change science, I believe, and it will change religion. 
Einstein believed deeply that science should transcend national and ethnic divisions. 
But he watched physicists and chemists become the purveyors of weapons of mass destruction in the early 20th century. 
So in this photograph you see a mind looking out a window at what might be a cathedral -- it's not. 
Thank you. 
Camp was more like a keg party without any alcohol. 
And it went like this: R-O-W-D-I-E, that's the way we spell rowdie. 
And I just waited for the time that I could go off and read my books. 
And I was always going off to crowded bars when I really would have preferred to just have a nice dinner with friends. 
So even if you're an extrovert yourself, I'm talking about your coworkers and your spouses and your children and the person sitting next to you right now -- all of them subject to this bias that is pretty deep and real in our society. 
Shyness is about fear of social judgment. 
So the key then to maximizing our talents is for us all to put ourselves in the zone of stimulation that is right for us. 
And also we have this belief system right now that I call the new groupthink, which holds that all creativity and all productivity comes from a very oddly gregarious place. 
And the vast majority of teachers reports believing that the ideal student is an extrovert as opposed to an introvert, even though introverts actually get better grades and are more knowledgeable, according to research. 
Now I think at this point it's important for me to say that I actually love extroverts. 
The same religions who send their sages off to lonely mountain tops also teach us love and trust. 
Here's Margaret Atwood, Cat's Eye. 
But here's the thing about my grandfather. 
It was my version of my grandfather's hours of the day alone in his library. 
And I call this my year of speaking dangerously. 
But we need much more privacy and much more freedom and much more autonomy at work. 
We need to be teaching kids to work together, for sure, but we also need to be teaching them how to work on their own. 
And that's okay. 
Then, about the initiative that Chris mentioned, that we decided to launch at AMD that we call 50x15. 
He explained to me about Johann Strauss, and how he created the waltzes that became so famous in the world. 
That's year by year. This comes from our friends at Gapminder.com. 
So, we talked about ways in which perhaps one could partner to be able to bring the cost of this technology down. 
And frankly -- and I know that sometimes I offend some of my customers when I say this, but I truly mean it -- if you could take the name of the computer off the top of it, it would be very difficult to judge who made it, because they're all highly commoditized but they're all different. 
And the last piece, which is really important -- and this is an opinion that we have, not shared by many, this is one where we seem to stand alone, on this one -- is that we really believe that the greatest success of this initiative can come by fostering local, integrated, end-to-end ecosystems. 
We just recently opened a learning laboratory in a school in the West Cape in South Africa, in a school that's called Nelson Mandela School, and when you see the faces and activities of these children being able to access computers, it's just phenomenal. 
And we're really thrilled about the opportunity to be part of this, and can't wait to see what comes out of this exciting, exciting activity. 
I'll tell you that one of the things that I feel is really critical for us in industry, in business, is to be able to be passionate about solving these problems. 
I was eager to go off to college, and go find girls, and study, and girls, and study, but then I finished college and I fell in love. 
And on my wedding day, my father came to me again and said, You know, I'm going to remind you again, that each generation has to do better than the last one. 
Just existing. 
I really think that's there's this inner desire. 
And all of a sudden, it brought a lot of money and a lot of attention. 
That's kind of a no-brainer. 
So, what is it for? 
So I believe, essentially, that leadership is stewardship. 
This is not my planet. It wasn't mine before I was born. 
Do you think we have a stewardship here, to take the environment seriously? 
What we believe, obviously -- and you know this -- determines our behavior, and our behavior determines what we become in life. 
My wife and I first made five decisions on what to do with the money. 
We just said, we're not going to use it on us. 
Believe me, there's a whole lot easier ways to make money. 
The last thing we did is we became what I call reverse tithers. 
And that is, when my wife and I got married 30 years ago, we started tithing. 
Materialism is all about getting -- get, get, get, get all you can, can all you get, sit on the can and spoil the rest. 
And we think that the good life is actually looking good -- that's most important of all -- looking good, feeling good and having the goods. 
There's a chapter in the Bible called Psalm 72, and it's Solomon's prayer for more influence. 
Basically, he's talking about all the marginalized in society. 
It's a shepherd's staff. 
And, by the way, my God doesn't have to show up on cheese bread. 
You know, if God's going to show up, He's not going to show up on cheese bread. 
But He doesn't do miracles just to show off. 
What do you do with a shepherd's staff? 
You pull them or you poke them, one or the other. 
And it represents your influence. 
And that gives with you enormous influence. 
What are you doing with what you've been given? 
Why would God wire you to do something and then not have you do it? 
And in some countries -- let me pick Afghanistan -- 75 percent of the little girls don't go to school. 
So in the three years since I talked at TED and showed a prototype, it's gone from an idea to a real laptop. 
We have about a quarter of a million in transit to those and other children, and then there are another quarter of a million more that are being ordered at this moment. 
And that engine is going to see the results in 20 years. 
They own the laptops. They take them home. 
And the reason she brought her mother is that this six-year-old child had been teaching her mother how to read and write. 
So it's 1995, I'm in college, and a friend and I go on a road trip from Providence, Rhode Island to Portland, Oregon. 
We get it in the abstract. 
But the thing is, the coyote runs off the cliff right after him. 
That's when he falls. 
This is not mine, by the way. 
We learn these really bad lessons really well. 
When the vice president for health care quality at Beth Israel spoke about this incident, he said something very interesting. 
And yeah, it is also why we get things wrong. 
I just imagined it everywhere, which has happened. 
And the crypto-theme is: 'I thought this one thing was going to happen and something else happened instead.' And the thing is, says Ira Glass, we need this. 
But, you know, our stories are like this because our lives are like this. 
And something else happened instead. 
Because half the stuff that's the most mind-boggling and world-altering -- TED 1998 -- eh. 
We come up with another idea. 
Bioenergy isn't global warming. Bioenergy is something which seems counterintuitive. Bioenergy is oil. It's gas. It's coal. And part of building that bridge to the future, to the point where we can actually see the oceans in a rational way, or put up these geo-spatial orbits that will twirl or do microwaves or stuff, is going to depend on how we understand bioenergy and manage it. And to do that, you really have to look first at agriculture. 
Maybe that's one of the reasons why if you fly over west Texas, the types of wells that you're beginning to see don't look unlike those pictures of Kansas and those irrigated plots. 
Which is curious as we debate all this stuff. But as you think of coal, this is what burned wheat kernels look like. Not entirely unlike coal. 
That is what bioenergy is. It is not ethanol. It is not subsidies to a few companies. It is not importing corn into Iowa because you've built so many of these ethanol plants. It is beginning to understand the transition that occurred in agriculture, from brute force into biological force. And in the measure that you can do that, you can clean some stuff, and you can clean it pretty quickly. 
But in the meantime, for the next decade at least, the name of the game is hydrocarbons. And be that oil, be that gas, be that coal, this is what we're dealing with. And before I make this talk too long, here's what's happening in the current energy system. 
86 percent of the energy we consume are hydrocarbons. That means 86 percent of the stuff we're consuming are probably processed plants and amoebas and the rest of the stuff. And there's a role in here for conservation. There's a role in here for alternative stuff, but we've also got to get that other portion right. 
And what gave her inspiration and meaning was the fact that she was taking care of people who were far away from home. 
In the wake of the dotcom crash and 9/11, San Francisco Bay Area hotels went through the largest percentage revenue drop in the history of American hotels. 
And I initially ended up in the business section of the bookstore looking for a business solution. 
Each of us, no matter what our role is in business, has some hierarchy of needs in the workplace. 
So as I started reading more Maslow, what I started to realize is that Maslow, later in his life, wanted to take this hierarchy for the individual and apply it to the collective, to organizations and specifically to business. 
But as we started asking ourselves about how we were addressing the higher needs of our employees and our customers, I realized we had no metrics. 
So I went out and studied a bunch of things, and I found a survey that showed that 94 percent of business leaders worldwide believe that the intangibles are important in their business, things like intellectual property, their corporate culture, their brand loyalty, and yet, only five percent of those same leaders actually had a means of measuring the intangibles in their business. 
And he's a very wise man, and he said, Listen, Bhutan's goal is not to create happiness. 
One of those key indicators is: How do the Bhutanese feel about how they spend their time each day? 
Or in other words, I think the Bhutanese believe happiness equals wanting what you have -- imagine gratitude -- divided by having what you want -- gratification. 
So it suggests that the momentum is shifting. 
As you look at these two columns here, doesn't it make you feel like it's time for us to start figuring out a new way to count, a new way to imagine what's important to us in life? 
We're spending 10 billion dollars on the census. 
We're asking 10 simple questions -- it is simplicity. 
They're about demographics. 
Abe Maslow said long ago something you've heard before, but you didn't realize it was him. 
He said, If the only tool you have is a hammer, everything starts to look like a nail. 
In Vivian's case, her unit of production isn't the tangible hours she works, it's the intangible difference she makes during that one hour of work. 
He stayed there a hundred times in the last 20 years, and he's loyal to the property because of the relationship that Vivian and her fellow employees have created with him. 
We don't have to choose between inspired employees and sizable profits, we can have both. 
At least, as he wrote, when a robot dies, you don't have to write a letter to its mother. 
The U.S. is currently ahead in military robotics right now, but we know that in technology there's no such thing as a permanent first move or advantage. 
There's already a jihadi website that you can go on and remotely detonate an IED in Iraq while sitting at your home computer. 
Soldiers have a name for these clips. 
The typical one that I was sent was an email that had an attachment of video of a Predator strike taking out an enemy site. Missile hits, bodies burst into the air with the explosion. 
It was set to music. 
And so we kind of have this kind of moral feel-good moment. 
That bottle winds up getting burned. 
And so poor people who are making these products in petrochemical centers like Cancer Alley, poor people who are consuming these products disproportionately, and then poor people, who even at the tail end of the recycling are having their lives shortened, are all being harmed greatly by this addiction that we have to disposability. 
Now you think to yourself -- because I know how you are -- you say, That sure is terrible for those poor people. 
It's just awful, those poor people. 
I hope someone does something to help them. 
But guess what? 
We don't have disposable resources. 
And as we all begin to come back to that basic understanding, new opportunities for action begin to emerge. 
But if we want to make something hard, we come up, I know, I'm going to make a hard substance. 
We just had this vote, and everybody's like, Well, not in our state. 
Just so proud. 
But California, though we lead the world in some of the green stuff, we also, unfortunately, lead the world in some of the gulag stuff. 
We have a moral challenge in this moment. 
And really, they fundamentally told you, Are you going to hug a tree, or are you going to hug a child? Pick. 
Well, when you start working on issues like plastic, you realize that the whole thing is connected, and luckily most of us are blessed to have two arms. 
They'd worn themselves out, beating themselves against the window, and, well, they were easy to capture. 
I've called this vehicle, generically, a volantor, after the Latin word volant, meaning, to fly in a light, nimble manner. 
Volantor-like helicopter, perhaps. 
The press calls my particular volantor a Skycar. 
One could say that a helicopter does pretty much what the hummingbird does, and gets around in much the same way, and it's true, but a helicopter is a very complex device. 
Because if you're in this world, where computers are controlling what you're doing, it's going to be very critical that something can't fail on you. 
Well, you can't right now take off from your home because it's too noisy. 
I mean to be able to take off from your home, you'd have to be extremely quiet. 
After all, if you can fly like that, why are you going to drive around on a highway? 
You can play computer games, you can sleep, you can read on the way. 
And then through the various years we invented various vehicles. 
Redundancy is the critical issue here. 
If you want to stay alive you've got to have backups. 
that's a very significant incentive for getting out of San Francisco. 
But you better be the first one out of town as the real estate values go to hell. 
There's an interesting poll that came out recently under NAS -- I think it's MSNBC -- in which they asked the question, Are you in the market for a volantor? 
I mean, think about how much we love this. 
Think about that. 
What Dr. Soljacic figured out how to do was separate the coils in a transformer to a greater distance than the size of those transformers using this technology, which is not dissimilar from the way an opera singer shatters a glass on the other side of the room. 
And what I'm going to do is to show you pretty much what's here. 
And if the demo gods are willing, in about 10 seconds or so we should see it. 
Think about it. You don't want those ugly cords coming down. 
Imagine if you can get rid of it. 
And I'll do it again, just for safety's sake. 
We're an equal opportunity designer of this sort of thing. 
It runs the Android operating system. 
So we put a little sleeve on the back, but we should be able to get this guy to wake up too. 
And think of what that would do for you. 
And third, our bodies are filters and storehouses for environmental toxins. 
If you're cremated, all those toxins I mentioned are released into the atmosphere. 
So by trying to preserve our dead bodies, we deny death, poison the living and further harm the environment. 
I realize this is not the kind of relationship that we usually aspire to have with our food. 
The Decompiculture Society shares a vision of a cultural shift, from our current culture of death denial and body preservation to one of decompiculture, a radical acceptance of death and decomposition. 
So the Virtual Earth initiative, and other types of these initiatives, are all about extending our current search metaphor. 
Well, a little unknown secret is his brother actually works on the Virtual Earth team. 
When we think about how all this comes together, it's all about software, algorithms and math. 
We do this all through software, algorithms and math -- a highly automated pipeline creating these cities. 
But what we've found is they like the fluidity of the 3-D model. 
I'm going to use these two countries to make an economic argument for democracy, rather than against democracy. 
Look at the skyline of Shanghai. 
The picture on India is the Dharavi slum of Mumbai in India. 
In an interview printed in the financial press of India, He said that he wants to make Mumbai another Shanghai. 
This is an Oxford-trained economist steeped in humanistic values, and yet he agrees with the high-pressure tactics of Shanghai. 
This is a very little known fact about the two countries. 
The economy grows, government accumulates more resources, and the government can invest in infrastructure -- rather than infrastructure being a cause for economic growth. 
One reason is the East Asian Model. 
Korea succeeded, North Korea didn't. 
Burma didn't succeed. 
In China, it's all women. 
By looking at these two pictures, I say no, it won't overtake China for a while. 
Actually, the answer is more nuanced and subtle than that. 
Indira Gandhi declared emergency rule in 1975. 
Why do many people believe that India is still a growth disaster? 
But China is a superstar in terms of economic growth. 
This is the Grand Cafe here in Oxford. 
That's its great claim to fame, and I wanted to show it to you, not because I want to give you the kind of Starbucks tour of historic England, but rather because the English coffeehouse was crucial to the development and spread of one of the great intellectual flowerings of the last 500 years, what we now call the Enlightenment. 
What are the environments that lead to unusual levels of innovation, unusual levels of creativity? 
And this is what they ended up coming with. 
It's called a neonurture device. 
In the inside, it's all car parts. 
It's got a fan, it's got headlights for warmth, it's got door chimes for alarm -- it runs off a car battery. 
This is Hogarth's famous painting of a kind of political dinner at a tavern, but this is what the coffee shops looked like back then. 
And one of the problems with this is that people are actually -- when you research this field -- people are notoriously unreliable, when they actually kind of self-report on where they have their own good ideas, or their history of their best ideas. 
So when they were sitting in front of the microscope, when they were talking to their colleague at the water cooler, and all these things. 
But that's a key thing. 
And so they ask around to a couple of their colleagues, and everybody's like, No, I hadn't thought of doing that. 
And so Guier and Weiffenbach go back to Weiffenbach's office, and they start kind of noodling around -- hacking, as we might call it now. 
We should record it. 
And they thought about it and they said, Well, I guess maybe you could. Let's run the numbers here. 
And I bet you one of you, if not more, has used said device and said satellite system to locate a nearby coffeehouse somewhere in the last --  in the last day or last week, right? 
Chance favors the connected mind. 
My story starts way before I was born. 
They got on and didn't know where they were going, and ended up in Canada. 
I was 14, and I emailed professors at the local university to see if maybe I could go work in their lab. And hardly anyone responded. 
And so I thought, Maybe if it can promote cell growth, it can inhibit cell death, too. 
And so that's the project that I pursued for that year, and it's continuing now as well, and found that a specific purine derivative called guanidine had inhibited the cell growth by approximately 60 percent. 
But I'd heard of cancer as the most feared disease of our time, so how did the good and bad go together? 
And while I was doing this, I was reading the cancer literature, trying to -- again -- familiarize myself with this new medical field. 
And it was really interesting -- there were articles correlating if you have a bone fracture, and then bone cancer arises. 
It hasn't yet become fine-tuned enough to finish what has been initiated. 
If we eliminate cancer the way we're trying to do now, with chemotherapy and radiation, we're bombarding the body or the cancer with toxins, or with radiation, trying to kill it. 
We're removing the cancer cells, but we're revealing the previous damage that the body has tried to fix. 
So, this really changed my view of looking at cancer. 
And what metastases are is when the tumor -- when a piece -- breaks off and travels through the blood stream and goes to a different organ. That's what a metastasis is. 
But then again, this fact that the metastases didn't go to skeletal muscle made that seem unlikely. 
And I guess I'll keep investigating until I get the answers. 
Is it possible that muscle somehow intuitively knows that it needs this blood supply? It needs to be constantly contracting, so therefore it's almost selfish. It's grabbing its blood vessels for itself. 
And I hate to say that. But it seems as though muscle cell, possibly because of all its use, has adapted faster than other body tissues to respond to injury, to fine-tune this repair response and actually be able to finish the process which the body wants to finish. I really believe that the human body is very, very smart, and we can't counteract something the body is saying to do. 
And again, some of these may be far-fetched, but I figured if there's anywhere to present far-fetched ideas, it's here at TED, so thank you very much. 
Some of you have heard the story before, but, in fact, there's somebody in the audience who's never heard this story -- in front of an audience -- before, so I'm a little more nervous than I normally am telling this story. 
And then, my translator left. 
They slept on the floor at night. 
I had photographed, as I said, a lot of these kids. 
Again, not at all shy or withdrawn, or anything like the other children that I'd photographed. 
It was very obvious, from the very beginning, that she was a leader. 
And I said to my translator, What's going on, why is she crying? 
And I said, I'm 28 years old, and I live in hotels, and I'm not married. 
And they had no idea about this request that she'd made of me. 
So I finally found Myung Sung, her best friend that she used to play with after school every day. 
And I said to the translator, What did he say? 
And I said, Well, tell him that I am a photographer. 
I sort of had this picture of this incredibly wonderful, bright, happy little child, who now appeared to be very withdrawn, being enslaved by this family. 
So I finally decided, I said Look, -- this is all through the translator, because, this is all, you know, I don't speak a word of Korean -- and I said, Look, I'm really glad that Hyun-Sook has a family to live with. 
I don't pretend to understand what's going on here. 
Well, there was an American Marine priest that I had met in the course of doing the story, who had 75 children living in his house. 
He had kids from all over Korea living there, and he would find families for these kids. 
Hyun-Sook stayed at Father Keene's, and her uncle agreed to let her stay there until the adoption went through. 
And then she set up a work detail list of who cleaned the orphanage on what day. 
We went back to our hotel room, and Gene was showing Natasha also where Atlanta was. 
And we fall asleep -- and I've been in this room, you know, for a couple of months now. 
And they always overheat the hotels in Korea terribly, so during the day I always left the window open. 
And I don't speak Korean, but I'm hearing these voices, and I'm not hearing anger, I'm hearing terror. 
I remember his son had the L.L. Bean bootlaces, and we're trying to do up his laces. 
So, we ran to the bathroom, and got towels, and put them over our faces, and the kids faces. 
Eleven people ended up dying in the fire. 
Five people jumped and died, other people were killed by the smoke. 
So it turned into a dual celebration, because Natasha was the first person from this village ever to go to the United States. 
This is saying goodbye to everybody at the orphanage. 
And the pilot, Jeff Cowley, actually went back and adopted one of the other kids at the orphanage after meeting Natasha. 
So, at this point, Natasha doesn't speak a word of English, other than what little Father Keene taught her. 
She learned English in three months. 
Natasha told me that a lot of the kids thought she was stuck up, because they would talk to her and she wouldn't answer, and they didn't realize she didn't actually speak English very well, in the beginning. 
Now, remember the picture, how much she looked like her grandmother, at the beginning? 
The captain of the cheerleaders. 
This is her half-sister. 
Natasha, would you just come up, for a second, just maybe to say hello to everybody? 
Natasha: I've seen pictures millions of times, but today was the first time I'm actually seeing him give the whole presentation. 
I started crying. 
The telescope is actually built similarly to the, well-known to you, Hubble Space Telescope, except it does have an additional lens -- a wide-field lens, as you would call it as a photographer. 
The way we do that, actually, is with a method, which we call the transit method. 
But we learn a lot from that: not only that there is a planet there, but we also learn its size. 
So, what have we learned? 
And we do care about planets like the Earth because by now we understood that life as a chemical system really needs a smaller planet with water and with rocks and with a lot of complex chemistry to originate, to emerge, to survive. 
So today, I'm here to actually give you a first glimpse of what the new telescope, Kepler, has been able to tell us in the last few weeks, and, lo and behold, we are back to the harmony and to fulfilling the dreams of Copernicus. 
It's about 100 million such planets. 
So that's great because then we can go and study them -- remotely, of course -- with all the techniques that we already have tested in the past five years. 
The one that this step is enabling us to do is coming next. 
So the question is: is that chemical phenomenon universal, or is it something which depends on the planet? 
We don't want to go blind because there's too many possibilities, and there is not too much lab, and there is not enough human time to actually to do all the experiments. 
Well, there are many reasons, and you heard some of them in the short talk today. 
And that is going to change our worldview in a profound way -- not in a dissimilar way as 400 years ago, Copernicus' act did, by changing the way we view space and time. 
And half the time, what's happened is it's related this kind of sense of insignificance to humankind, to the Earth in a bigger space. 
I mean look, you can see the necktie, but you can't even imagine seeing the size of a little, small atom. 
So what does this tell us? 
There is immense, powerful potential in life in this universe -- especially now that we know that places like the Earth are common. 
Let's start this new revolution at the tail end of the old one, with synthetic biology being the way to transform both our environment and our future. 
These Gapminder bubbles show you how the spread of the virus was in 1983 in the world, or how we estimate that it was. 
Look, India got many infected, but had a low level. 
And almost the same happens here. 
Now, let me make a fast replay of Botswana. 
And if people who are infected are treated, they don't die of AIDS. 
In spite of PEPFAR, the generous PEPFAR, all people are not reached by treatment, and of those who are reached by treatment in the poor countries, only 60 percent are left on treatment after two years. 
No, it's not. Look here. 
There's a lot of things that we thought, that now, good research, done by African institutions and researchers together with the international researchers, show that that's not the case. 
See the difference within one African country -- it goes from very low level to very high level, and most of the provinces in Kenya is quite modest. 
So, what is it then? 
It could be concurrency. 
And we have a terrible chlamydia epidemic -- terrible chlamydia epidemic which sticks around for many years. 
Let's talk about past and future billions. 
We know that most of that wealth was made after the year 1800. 
And notice, most of that went to the motherland, to the imperial metropoles, not to their colonial possessions. 
So I'm going to translate this into language that you can understand. 
Let me very briefly tell you what I mean by this, synthesizing the work of many economic historians in the process. 
That really was a killer application. 
Property rights: It's not the democracy, folks; it's having the rule of law based on private property rights. 
Very few Indians today wish that India had gone down Mahatma Gandhi's road. 
Finally, the work ethic. 
He was wrong. 
Take a look at mathematical attainment by 15 year-olds. 
Now it's just five times, and soon it will be 2.5 times. 
And could Africa get that sequencing wrong? 
One obvious implication of modern economic history is that it's quite hard to transition to democracy before you've established secure private property rights. 
Warning: that may not work. 
That's the basis for the Western model of representative government. 
And I think these words really nail it: It means a society based upon the opinion of civilians. 
That's not the way history works. 
That's one of the most profound insights to come out of the historical study of complex institutions like civilizations. 
What's your view on that? 
Niall Ferguson: Well I really am not just talking about the rise of the East; I'm talking about the rise of the Rest, and that includes South America. 
I once asked one of my colleagues at Harvard, Hey, is South America part of the West? 
Spiders are not just everywhere, but they're extremely diverse. 
Spiders are also extremely old. 
Even fossil spiders can make silk, as we can see from this impression of a spinneret on this fossil spider. 
So this means that both spiders and spider silk have been around for 380 million years. 
You can see multiple fibers coming out of the spinnerets, because each spinneret has many spigots on it. 
In an orb-web-weaving spider, you can find seven types of silk glands, and what I have depicted here in this picture, let's start at the one o'clock position, there's tubuliform silk glands, which are used to make the outer silk of an egg sac. 
So silk fibers vary in their strength and also their extensibility. 
If it wasn't able to stretch so much, then basically when an insect hit the web, it would just trampoline right off of it. 
Some of them are orb-weaving spiders and some of them are non-orb-weaving spiders. 
How do groups get anything done? Right? 
How do you organize a group of individuals so that the output of the group is something coherent and of lasting value, instead of just being chaos? 
And a coordination cost is essentially all of the financial or institutional difficulties in arranging group output. 
More recently, because the cost of letting groups communicate with each other has fallen through the floor -- and communication costs are one of the big inputs to coordination -- there has been a second answer, which is to put the cooperation into the infrastructure, to design systems that coordinate the output of the group as a by-product of the operating of the system, without regard to institutional models. 
And what I want to call your attention to is not the Mermaid Parade itself, charming though it is, but rather to these photos. 
First of all, when you form an institution, you take on a management problem, right? 
You have to have legal structure. 
Third, forming an institution is inherently exclusionary. 
You can't hire everyone in a company, right? 
When you build cooperation into the infrastructure, which is the Flickr answer, you can leave the people where they are and you take the problem to the individuals, rather than moving the individuals to the problem. 
In bigger systems, the head gets bigger and the tail gets longer, so the imbalance increases. 
If you go down to five percent, you're still accounting for 60 percent of the photos. 
We've looked at who's contributed to Linux, and most of the patches have been produced by programmers who've only done one thing. Right? 
Do you want that patch, right? 
Meetup, a service founded so that users could find people in their local area who share their interests and affinities and actually have a real-world meeting offline in a cafe or a pub or what have you. 
Stay-at-home moms. Right? 
It is a one-button operation that you can do for free. 
And the answer to that question is, it doesn't matter, because that's not the right question. 
And if there is an answer to that that happens outside the professional framework of journalism, it makes no sense to take a professional metaphor and apply it to this distributed class. 
They trade tips, like, if you feel like eating something, clean a toilet or the litter box. The feeling will pass. 
We have an attitude that support groups are inherently beneficial. 
Now, when the larger group is a bunch of drunks, and the small group wants to stay sober, then we think, that's a great support group. 
But when the small group is teenage girls who want to stay anorexic by choice, then we're horrified. 
Flavor is king. Flavor rules. 
So, this is the challenge for this bread. 
And this is what every student has to begin with. 
Everyone who works in the culinary world knows that the first stage of cooking is mise en place, which is just a French way of saying, get organized. 
Everything in its place. First stage. 
Stage two is mixing. We take the ingredients and we mix them. 
And so we, in the mixing process, have to develop the gluten, we have to activate the leaven or the yeast, and we have to essentially distribute all the ingredients evenly. 
And at stage nine we get the dough to the final shape, and it goes into the oven -- stage 10. 
And the starches, when they reach about 180 degrees, gelatinize. 
And stage 11, we call it cooling -- because we never really eat the bread right away. 
And we save some of those for the next generation. 
So we turn it into flour. 
Not like hot water made cold, or cold water turned hot, but water boiled off and becoming steam. 
So, we've got now this flour. 
And what do we do? We add some water. 
Or another analogy would be, a caterpillar has been turned into a butterfly. 
But we've got this bread, and what I did here is to try to, again, evoke even more flavor from this grain, was we've added into it the spent grain from beer-making. 
And so this is, again, hopefully not only a healthy bread, but a bread that you will enjoy. 
So, if I, kind of, break this bread, maybe we can share this now a little bit here. 
We'll start a little piece here, and I'm going to take a little piece here -- I think I'd better taste it myself before you have it at lunch. 
Let me give you just one example of this. 
Now the question is: How could we ask them? 
But half the time, what she would do is take a little bit of the broccoli and go, Mmmmm, broccoli. 
So she'd act as if what she wanted was just the opposite of what the babies wanted. 
The question you might ask though is: Why do children learn so much? 
Well what kind of explanation could we have for this? 
And essentially what Bayes did was to provide a mathematical way using probability theory to characterize, describe, the way that scientists find out about the world. 
And some 10 years ago, I suggested that babies might be doing the same thing. 
Because if you wave a block over the top of the detector, something you wouldn't ever think of to begin with, the detector will actually activate two out of three times. 
Now there are two things that are really interesting about this. 
The first one is, again, remember, these are four year-olds. 
They're just learning how to count. 
And there's been a bunch of interesting studies recently that have shown this playing around is really a kind of experimental research program. 
I don't know. 
Not working either. 
I think babies and children are actually more conscious than we are as adults. 
It's good to be a grownup. 
That technology is simulating humans. 
And what you can see is -- it is actually a very good game. 
I've made him run into a wall here, over and over again. 
So, we simulated that as well, and then the really tricky bit is to teach that network how to walk. 
We heard about those already yesterday, and I suppose that most of you are familiar with that already. 
Those are then selected by the algorithm, reproduced with mutation and recombinations to introduce sex as well. 
Now, this might look kind of trivial, but it's actually very important because this is not something you get at the moment in any interactive or any virtual worlds. 
So that's what you see here. 
We just took this character that I just talked about, put it on a slippery surface, and this is what you get out of it. 
So that you don't have a character that looks limp, but actually a character that you can use in an action film straight away, that looks kind of alive in midair as well. 
That's one angle; here's another angle. 
So this is exactly the same behavior that you saw, but in a slightly better rendered version. 
This is incredibly quick. This is happening in real time. 
This is another behavior they requested. 
You feel kind of sorry for the guy. 
It's even worse -- and that is another video I just got last night -- if you render that a bit more realistically. 
Yes, you can just about see it here. 
Now, we've just tried and -- looked at our character and asked ourselves, Can we do that ourselves as well? 
This was an AI contour that was produced and evolved -- half-evolved, I should say -- to produce balance, basically. 
So, that all happened automatically. We didn't put that in there. 
Thanks. 
You can draw, as everyone should. 
Shake it, and you have a heterosexual couple. 
You know, I'm making a very important argument. 
I'm making an argument that art and creativity are very essential tools in empathy. 
Say your motorcycle crashes. 
OK. When I was offered the Times column six years ago, the deal was like this: you'll be sent the coolest, hottest, slickest new gadgets. 
Every week it'll arrive at your door. 
The job, though, came with one small downside. And that is: they intended to publish my email address at the end of every column. 
The guy had a duplicate headset for me to listen to. 
Some of the stories are just so classic, and yet so understandable. 
And the technician's like, Ma'am, you've got the mouse up against the screen? 
And we've arrived at the age of interface matrices, where there are so many features and options, you have to do two dimensions, you know: a vertical and a horizontal. You guys all complained about how Microsoft Word is always bulleting your lists and underlining your links automatically. 
It's not like the rest of the screen is so full of other components that you need to collapse the choices. 
So there is a limit that we don't want to cross. So what is the answer? 
I'm sorry; it's not one yet. 
You have to scroll, like, seven screens-full to get to it. 
It's like a 747 shuttle cockpit. 
You do not. 
We've entered planet domination mode. 
They're dying to throw the whole thing out and start fresh, but they can't. They're locked in because so many add-ons and other company stuff locks into the old 1982 chassis. 
I liked the Media Center PC. I liked the Microsoft SPOT Watch. 
The lesson was: simplicity sells. 
Here's another example. Chris, you're the source of all power. 
In my very last example -- I do a lot of my work using speech recognition software, and you have to be kind of quiet because the software is nervous. 
I also use this feature called voice macros. Period. 
Correct dissuade. Not just. 
No new features. It's never happened before in software! 
It could be the design of the thing you're using. 
But I also, in looking at more powerful technologies and nanotechnology and genetic engineering and other new emerging kind of digital technologies, became very concerned about the potential for abuse. 
And we can't fight the threat in the kind of stupid way we're doing, because a million-dollar act causes a billion dollars of damage, causes a trillion dollar response which is largely ineffective and arguably, probably almost certainly, has made the problem worse. 
So after giving up on the book -- and I had the great honor to be able to join Kleiner Perkins about a year ago, and to work through venture capital on the innovative side, and to try to find some innovations that could address what I saw as some of these big problems. 
Things where, you know, a factor of 10 difference can make a factor of 1,000 difference in the outcome. 
The first is this whole area of education, and it really relates to what Nicholas was talking about with a $100 computer. 
I think the challenge for us is -- I'm very certain that that will happen, the challenge is, will we develop the kind of educational tools and things with the net to let us take advantage of that device? 
I'd argue today that we have incredibly powerful computers, but we don't have very good software for them. 
So given that we know and should believe -- because Moore's Law's been, like, a constant, I mean, it's just been very predictable progress over the last 40 years or whatever. 
We have a challenge, because the urban population is growing in this century from two billion to six billion in a very short amount of time. People are moving to the cities. 
And these are the kinds of things we're going to discover as we start to engineer at the nano scale. 
We believe that Genentech, the Compaq, the Lotus, the Sun, the Netscape, the Amazon, the Google in these fields are yet to be found, because this materials revolution will drive these things forward. 
And to give you an idea of the last fund that Kleiner raised was a $400 million fund, so this for us is a very substantial fund. 
And what we did, over the last few months -- well, a few months ago, Ray Kurzweil and I wrote an op-ed in the New York Times about how publishing the 1918 genome was very dangerous. 
You normally get a trivalent vaccine against three possible strains. 
We believe that if we could fill these 10 gaps, we have a chance to help really reduce the risk of a pandemic. 
So we're very excited because we think we can fund 10, or speed up 10 projects and see them come to market in the next couple years that will address this. 
But above all, what we have to do is we have to help the good guys, the people on the defensive side, have an advantage over the people who want to abuse things. 
Many of them are trying to kill us from the minute we go into them, but nevertheless, they're absolutely gripping, and contain unbelievable biological wonders that are very, very different from those that we have on the planet. 
Apart from the intrinsic value of the biology and mineralogy and geo-microbiology that we do there, we're also using these as templates for figuring out how to go look for life on other planets. 
Particularly Mars, but also Europa, the small, icy moon around Jupiter. 
We're getting ready to begin to go through the process of leaving our planet of origin and out into the wider solar system and beyond. 
I think, myself, that life is a natural outgrowth of the increasing complexification of matter over time. 
It's going to be everywhere we look -- where there are planetary systems that can possibly support it. 
So this is a very bold statement. 
How do you know it when you find it? 
Very critically, how do we protect it, if we find it, and not contaminate it? 
If I were to take a swab off your teeth and plate it on a Petri plate, within about four or five hours, I would have to see growth. 
So they are, intrinsically, a slower life-form. 
It's a very simple trick, and I never fail to do it when I'm sitting in a window seat. 
This is regularly several hundred parts per million. 
And these are mineral deposits that are also made by bacteria. 
And so, one can send a thousand of them, as you can see in this upper left-hand picture, a thousand of them could fit into the payload bay that was used for one of the current MER Rovers. 
The question as to whether there is life on Mars that is related to life on Earth has now been very muddied, because we now know, from Mars meteorites that have made it to Earth, that there's material that can be exchanged between those two planets. 
One of the burning questions, of course, is if we go there and find life in the sub-surface, as I fully expect that we will, is that a second genesis of life? 
Did it start there and get transported here? 
This will be a fascinating puzzle as we go into the next half-century, and where I expect that we will have more and more Mars missions to answer these questions. 
For real -- you can take a second. You've got to feel this to learn it. 
Well, you could resist the temptation to announce your goal. 
He wouldn't reveal the exact number of bottles, he would not reveal exactly where the building was and he would not reveal exactly who owned the building. 
And he ended up spending over a million dollars and hiring ex-FBI and ex-Scotland Yard agents to try to get to the bottom of this. 
There are very few places in the U.S. where you can try real Kobe, and one of them is Wolfgang Puck's restaurant, Cut, in Los Angeles. 
It was like, 160 dollars for this? 
And then I was left with these little ugly flakes on my pasta that, you know, their purpose had been served, and so I'm afraid to say that this was also a disappointment to me. 
This is soap that's made from silver nanoparticles, which have antibacterial properties. 
And it, you know, tickled a little bit and it smelled good, but I have to say that nobody here has complimented me on the cleanliness of my face today. 
These ones GQ did spring for -- I own these -- but I will tell you, not only did I not get a compliment from any of you, I have not gotten a compliment from anybody in the months that I have owned and worn these. 
And then an enzyme in its digestive tract leeches into the beans, and people with the unenviable job of collecting these cats' leavings then go through the forest collecting the, you know, results and processing it into coffee -- although you actually can buy it in the unprocessed form. 
But anyway, we had a great night's sleep. 
And you spend a third of your life in bed. 
This is Tom Cruise arriving at the Mission: Impossible III premiere. 
When he tries to open the door, you could call it Mission: Impossible IV. 
There was one object that I could not get my hands on, and that was the 1947 Cheval Blanc. 
And it was an invitation you do not refuse. 
Earlier this year, a virtual asteroid in it sold for 330,000 real dollars. 
And this is a Titan class ship in the space game, EVE Online. 
It gives you great powers. 
Your ambition is satisfied, but it's very beautiful. 
And so these combine to form a very intense emotional engagement. 
But this isn't the really interesting stuff. 
The really interesting stuff about virtuality is what you can measure with it. 
The game's just trying to get people to open about a million boxes, getting better and better stuff in them. 
This sounds immensely boring but games are able to make this process incredibly compelling. 
But we don't just have pies in the boxes. 
And also, we say, Well, how many monsters? Should I have the entire world full of a billion monsters? 
They're not rational about probability. 
It's not giving me my last two pies. I'm going to give up. 
And the point is really that we evolved to be satisfied by the world in particular ways. 
So, you give people lots and lots of different tasks. 
Third, you reward effort. 
And something very exciting is just beginning to happen in places like the University of Bristol in the U.K., where we are beginning to be able to model mathematically dopamine levels in the brain. 
And the success rate is at close to 100 percent. 
Let's start with business. 
But each bag we'd sell would provide a year's worth of school meals for one kid. 
All this time you're -- when you think about hunger, it's a hard thing to think about, because what we think about is eating. 
There's definitely hunger in America: 49 million people and almost 16.7 million children. 
Hunger definitely means something a little bit different in America than it does internationally, but it's incredibly important to address hunger in our own country. 
Well, they're both about food. 
And you know, the reality is that between farmers in America, who actually, quite frankly, when I spend time in the Midwest, are pretty large in general. 
So the problematic food system is affecting both hunger and obesity. 
Not to beat a dead horse, but this is a global food system where there's a billion people hungry and billion people obese. 
And how are we going to get those kids those nutritious foods? 
Another thing that's become incredibly global is production of meat and fish. 
And we were going to do something that was horrible for the profession. 
And that the incredible amount of effort to deliver those sketches for years and years and years is not only something to be derided, but we would merely write it off as merely execution. 
Now, there are all kinds of things that we architects need to learn how to do, like managing contracts, learning how to write contracts, understanding procurement processes, understanding the time value of money and cost estimation. 
Take joint positions with your client. 
Why was this horrible little building so important to their renown and their innovation? 
Because they could do whatever they wanted to to this building. 
The architectural manifestation was frankly just dumb. 
In fact it really was the clients who had to do it. 
They had to make a decision, based on the positions we took to redefine the budget being from two thirds capital-A architecture and one-third infrastructure, to actually the inverse, two-thirds infrastructure and one-third capital-A architecture. 
Now, that theater machine has ability to move between a whole series of configurations at the push of a button and a few stagehands in a short amount of time. 
But it also has the potential to not only provide multiform but multi-processional sequences. 
And some of the seats need to actually change their direction, and change their rake, to allow that to happen. 
There you see it's the side balconies for the proscenium. 
Meaning, nothing that we do can we be the first ones to do it. 
Now, if I'll take you through -- this is an early concept sketch -- take you through kind of a mixture of all these things together. 
You would be allowed to bring objects or performers into the performing chamber: Aida, their elephants, you can bring the elephants in. 
Et voila. 
This is the AT&amp;T Performing Arts Center's Dee and Charles Wyly Theater. 
But we got to that conclusion without understanding where we were going, what we knew were a series of issues that the company and the client was confronted with. 
So this is a picture of me holding one of the first watercolor paintings I ever made. 
I have many of these books, and I've been keeping them for about the last eight or nine years. 
And I really loved this idea of the partial glimpse into somebody's life. 
As opposed to knowing the whole story, just knowing a little bit of the story, and then letting your own mind fill in the rest. 
This is a project that scans the world's newly posted blog entries every two or three minutes, searching for occurrences of the phrases I feel and I am feeling. And when it finds one of those phrases, it grabs the full sentence up to the period and also tries to identify demographic information about the author. 
And when that happens, these montage compositions are automatically created, which consist of the sentence and images being combined. 
I'm 23, and a recovering meth and heroin addict, and feel absolutely blessed to still be alive. 
I feel sassy. 
As you can see, We Feel Fine collects very, very small-scale personal stories. 
So, really even challenging the notion of what can be considered a story. 
And the Eskimo community basically camps out on the edge of the ice here, waits for a whale to come close enough to attack. And when it does, it throws a harpoon at it, and then hauls the whale up under the ice, and cuts it up. 
They have colors. What do they look like? 
This is in the Patkotak's family living room in their house in Barrow. The boxed wine they served us. 
Cigarette break outside -- I don't smoke. 
So, you have some really happy person holding 10 balloons, and some really sad soul holding one balloon. 
A 16-year-old student. 
I asked her about that, and she said she meant that she doesn't want to be married, because, in her opinion, when you get married in Bhutan as a woman, your chances to live an independent life kind of end, and so she had no interest in that. 
A 37-year-old road worker. 
His wish was to make some money and open a store. 
Finally, this is a 26-year-old nun I spoke to. 
I asked her a little bit more about the cave and what she planned would happen once she went there, you know. 
Jonathan Harris: Maybe you'll die? Woman: Yes. 
Yeah, but -- yeah, OK. Do you hope -- would you prefer to live in the cave for 40 years, or to live for one year? 
Woman: Yes. From then, I'm going to the heaven. 
You can start to see some familiar balloons here. 
Thank you. 
So, the approach that we took was the other way around. 
What you see here is a prototypic device. 
It's made of paper and paper, of course, wicks fluid, as you know, paper, cloth -- drop wine on the tablecloth, and the wine wicks all over everything. 
So, the production capability is there. 
And the procedure that we have is simply to start with paper. 
You can't manipulate it very well, although I'll show something about that in a moment. 
So, you take the drop of blood, no further manipulations, you put it on a little device, the device filters out the blood cells, lets the serum go through, and you get a series of colors down in the bottom there. 
Turns out to work actually quite well, particularly when your color printer has printed the color bars that indicate how things work. 
I don't know whether the idea of one computer, one child makes any sense. Here's the computer of the future, because this screen is already there and they're ubiquitous. 
The answer is that what you do, and the details are not terribly important here, is to make something more elaborate: You take several different layers of paper, each one containing its own little fluid system, and you separate them by pieces of, literally, double-sided carpet tape, the stuff you use to stick the carpets onto the floor. 
But that is, in principle, the way you solve the fever of unexplained origin problem, because each one of those spots then becomes a test for a particular set of markers of disease, and this will work in due course. 
Now, I have one last, two last little stories to tell you, in finishing off this business. 
We were very proud of this, particularly the title, which was Eggbeater as Centrifuge. 
We all struggled for an entire day to think about simplicity. 
Why are we spending $135 billion? 
In the fourth act, with our hubris, our overconfidence developing, we invaded Iraq and Afghanistan, and in the fifth act, we plunged into a humiliating mess. 
When I walked across Afghanistan in the winter of 2001-2002, what I saw was scenes like this. 
In Sangin where I was sick in 2002, the nearest health clinic was within three days walk. 
And the same is true for the troops. 
And the reason I'm looking a little bit perplexed in this photograph is I was somewhat frightened, and I was too afraid on this occasion to ask him, having run for an hour through the desert and taken refuge in this house, why he had turned up and wanted to have his photograph taken with me. 
Now this is not to say Afghanistan is a place full of people like Mullah Mustafa. 
I ran a center at Harvard from 2008 to 2010, and there were people like Michael Semple there who speak Afghan languages fluently, who've traveled to almost every district in the country. 
You feel deep, deep guilt. 
The average British soldier is on a tour of only six months; Italian soldiers, on tours of four months; the American military, on tours of 12 months. 
So we need to change that institutional culture. 
Secondly, we need to aim off of the optimism of the generals. 
Borders between the Bosniak territory and the Bosnian-Serb territory have calmed down. 
If what we're interested in is regional stability, Egypt is far more important. 
Just briefly, what's your take on the current events there and the intervention? 
What we should have done in Libya is we should have stuck to the U.N. resolution. 
For the first time in the United States, a predominantly white group of voters voted for an African-American candidate for President. 
But really the question here -- Obama did relatively well in Kansas. 
Actually we didn't ask them, but when they conducted exit polls in every state, in 37 states, out of the 50, they asked a question, that was pretty direct, about race. 
And they ask a series of really interesting questions. 
But you see Democrats versus Republican, not a big difference based on who your neighbors are. 
And likewise they asked, not in 2000, but in the same survey in 1996, Would you not vote for a qualified black president? 
I'm a big fan of cities. 
And it was followed a year or two later by Laennec discovering the stethoscope. 
It's been on calendars, postage stamps in many different countries. 
I call it the iPatient. 
They understood her breast cancer at the molecular level; they had no need to touch her breasts. 
But to her, it mattered deeply. 
We marry, for example, with great pomp and ceremony and expense to signal our departure from a life of solitude and misery and loneliness to one of eternal bliss. 
I would feel the abdomen. 
I remember so many huge, hollowed out, haunted eyes staring up at me as I performed this ritual. 
It was an offering, an invitation. 
It's the -- it's produced by the Quadro Corporation of West Virginia. 
You could dowse for all sorts of things, but this particular one was built to dowse for marijuana in students' lockers. 
So the way it works is, you go down the hallway and you see if it tilts toward a particular locker, and then you open the locker. 
No, it -- well, it has kind of a right-leaning bias. 
You can say a miracle occurs. 
Whereas -- and it's true, scientists sometimes throw terms out as linguistic place fillers -- dark energy or dark matter or something like that -- until we figure out what it is, we'll just call it this -- it's the beginning of the causal chain for science. 
You don't even need Photoshop; you don't need high-tech equipment; you don't need computers. 
In the case of Galileo, he had two problems when he turned his telescope to Saturn. 
And this is what he ended up concluding that he saw. 
So without a theory of planetary rings and with only grainy data, you can't have a good theory. 
And it wasn't solved until 1655. 
And so, you're reducing the quality of your data. 
Virgin Mary in Clearwater, Florida. 
Here's the Virgin Mary on the backside, which they started to wipe off. 
And in England, there's a pop singer. 
In America it would be, We're 6,000 light years from the edge. 
And so if we can do that, then we can free up resources for buying drugs that you really do need for treating AIDS and HIV and malaria and for preventing avian flu. Thank you. 
That is the primary function of an incubator. 
And then we thought of the most simple solution we could to address this problem. 
He connected with people who cared about this: nonprofessionals, people with passion. 
Henry Ford comes up with a really cool idea. 
It enables him to hire men who used to get paid 50 cents a day and pay them five dollars a day. 
And you can build an entire industry on that. 
You know the pirate tribe is a fascinating one. 
So when Al Gore set out to change the world again, he didn't do it by himself. 
What Kevin Kelley has taught us is you just need, I don't know, a thousand true fans -- a thousand people who care enough that they will get you the next round and the next round and the next round. 
The Beatles did not invent teenagers. 
She didn't invent the idea of caring about this issue. 
I see what the status quo is; I don't like it. 
Someone stands up and says, This one is important. 
Because if you're not upsetting anyone, you're not changing the status quo. 
Because focusing on that part of it -- not the mechanics of what you're building, but the who, and the leading part -- is where change comes. 
So here is what leaders have in common. The first thing is, they challenge the status quo. 
The second thing is, they build a culture. 
Thank you very much. I appreciate it. 
They have different interests. They have divergent values. 
They were created by a Kuwaiti psychologist called Naif Al Mutawa. 
Now, The 99 is not just a comic book. 
It's now a theme park. 
Now, while 4Shbab and The 99 may look new and shiny, there is actually a very long tradition of this. 
And to my mind, those are pretty wise words, no matter what your creed. Thank you. 
This is Tootsie's Orchid Lounge in Nashville. 
And the size of the room is not that big. 
He wanted a bigger band. 
The halls got bigger. Carnegie Hall's fair-sized. 
And they're a lot more reverberant than La Scala. 
It meant that there could be extreme dynamics, which there weren't in some of these other kinds of music. 
It would have been impossible without recorded music as well. 
And he's singing right into your ear. 
He's whispering into your ears. 
Now there's venues like this, a discotheque, and there's jukeboxes in bars, where you don't even need to have a band. 
And, as with jazz, the dancers liked certain sections more than they did others. 
So that doesn't really work. 
And it turns out that a sound like this is the most energy efficient and practical way to transmit their call across the fields and savannahs. 
It's adaptive. 
And I'm saying, well, the passion's still there, but the vessel that it's going to be injected into and poured into, that is instinctively and intuitively created first. 
We sing. 
And like the birds, the joy is still there, even though we have changed what we do to fit the context. 
As a clergyman, you can imagine how out of place I feel. 
And I was so stimulated. 
But some years ago I was on an elevator in Philadelphia, coming down. 
But I was on an airplane in the east some years ago, and the man sitting across the aisle from me was the mayor of Charlotte, North Carolina. 
He said, Your sermons have certainly helped me. 
But this is not the first time that we've had a technological revolution. 
A man by the name of David came to the throne, and King David became one of the great leaders of his generation. 
He had the favor of God with him. 
And David found that there were many problems that technology could not solve. 
And yet he says, He restores my soul. 
We can't get along with other people, even in our own families. 
I'm going to Harvard in about three or four -- no, it's about two months from now -- to give a lecture. 
What's life all about? Why am I here? 
What shall I talk to her about? 
Every time you ever hear me on the television or somewhere, I'm ad-libbing. 
He said, The Lord is my shepherd. 
And I said, There's one thing that we have in common in this room, all of us together, whether Republican or Democrat, or whoever. 
As the ancient writer of Ecclesiastes wrote, he said, there's every activity under heaven. 
Was there a God? 
The reality of this life and His resurrection is the hope of mankind. 
And I said, Sir, I do. 
He said, When I leave office, I'm going to spend my time writing a book on why Jesus Christ rose again, and why it's so important to believe that. 
Pascal has been called the architect of modern civilization. 
Yet he too had to face death, and he wrote these words: even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for you are with me. 
When I was 17 years of age, I was born and reared on a farm in North Carolina. 
I didn't make them in college, until something happened in my heart. 
He was a liar. 
Or he was what he claimed to be. 
Richard Wurman: You did it. 
I know that beat. 
Especially I will not die for you. 
Everyone can be wrong. 
I will not forget where I come from. 
I will craft my own drum. 
I will dance and resist and dance and persist and dance. 
Your war drum ain't louder than this breath. Haaa. 
What's up TED people? Let me hear you make some noise. 
Hold her now with you. 
Profits made, prophets ignored. 
Faced with absence. 
After two weeks of working in that village, it was time to go back. 
With tears in my eyes, I said, No. 
The women's chief of the village has this little girl, fair color like me, totally dirty. 
I wish to go to school. 
Several years ago, a few friends of mine decided we needed to bridge the disconnect between our generation and the generation of young women. 
Today, we've worked with over 300. 
This is the dream of the African girl. 
But sadly, the vision of a great future, or the dream of a great future, is just a dream, because you have all of these vices. 
This is a real rural village. 
Now that was the advice that St. Benedict gave his rather startled followers in the fifth century. 
Up until that moment, I had been that classic corporate warrior -- I was eating too much, I was drinking too much, I was working too hard and I was neglecting the family. 
Now the first step in solving any problem is acknowledging the reality of the situation you're in. 
It's in their nature; it's in their DNA; it's what they do -- even the good, well-intentioned companies. 
Have sex. 
Now that can be daunting. 
As I was walking out of his bedroom, he said, Dad? I went, Yes, mate? 
And the Hunts Point Riverside Park became the first waterfront park that the South Bronx had had in more than 60 years. 
And, in the fall, I'm actually going to -- I exchange marriage vows with my beloved. Thank you very much. 
One out of four South Bronx children has asthma. 
Residents were often given less than a month's notice before their buildings were razed. 
The common perception was that only pimps and pushers and prostitutes were from the South Bronx. 
And luckily for me, that home and the love inside of it, along with help from teachers, mentors and friends along the way, was enough. 
Are these factors taken into consideration when land-use policy is decided? 
Once we realized that, we decided it was time to do our own planning. 
Anyway, I know Chris told us not to do pitches up here, but since I have all of your attention: we need investors. End of pitch. 
Anyway --   OK. Katrina. Prior to Katrina, the South Bronx and New Orleans' Ninth Ward had a lot in common. Both were largely populated by poor people of color, both hotbeds of cultural innovation: think hip-hop and jazz. 
In the post-Katrina era, we have still more in common. 
Neither the destruction of the Ninth Ward nor the South Bronx was inevitable. 
At present, that's not happening in New York City. 
And although less than 25 percent of South Bronx residents own cars, these projects include thousands of new parking spaces, yet zip in terms of mass public transit. 
I do have a problem with developments that hyper-exploit politically vulnerable communities for profit. 
But one of the things I do to remind myself of greater possibilities is to learn from visionaries in other cities. 
He looked at the demographics. 
His administration narrowed key municipal thoroughfares from five lanes to three, outlawed parking on those streets, expanded pedestrian walkways and bike lanes, created public plazas, created one of the most efficient bus mass-transit systems in the entire world. 
I don't think he understood that I wasn't asking for funding. 
This is more or less what we saw last year, and this is how it will go on into the future. 
Because you see now, I presented statistics that don't exist. 
And this is GDP per capita on this axis. 
The last century, 1870, was bad for the kids in Europe, because most of this statistics is Europe. 
And this is the United States moving away here, earning more money. 
Let us have a look at the United States. 
Within some years Chile may have better child survival than the United States. 
That's the part where I sold the Volvo and bought the Toyota. 
And now we can see that the rate of change was enormous in Japan. 
Sweden was like Ghana. 
Because I have to show you one of the other facilities. 
We can also make the color here represent the variable -- and what am I choosing here? 
And there we are, 2001. 
The world is quite a messy place. 
This is two to five dollars. You have a bed. 
I lectured on this for Ikea, and they wanted to see the sofa immediately here. 
I would say that sub-Saharan Africa has done best in the world during the last 50 years. 
And that's good, it gets two plusses. 
Environment is very, very crucial. 
Of course, it's human rights. 
And culture. Culture is the most important thing, I would say, because that's what brings joy to life. 
Even African countries can achieve this. 
It's a cultural expression that for thousands of years has inspired human beings to think beyond the obvious. 
And so cars, as art, brings it into an emotional plane -- if you accept that -- that you have to deal with on the same level you would with art with a capital A. 
Now at this point you're going to see a picture of Michelangelo. 
Automobiles are self-moving things, right? Elevators are automobiles. 
Cars are a sculpture -- did you know this? 
OK, it's not marketing; there's a very interesting car concept here, but the marketing part is not what I want to talk about here. 
It's that will to live, that need to survive, to express itself, that comes in a car, and takes over people like me. 
And we tell other people, Do this, do this, do this, until this thing comes alive. 
We are completely infected. And beauty can be the result of this infectiousness; it's quite wonderful. 
Now, now I get to the point. I want to talk about cars as art. 
We're not trying to find vanity and beauty. 
And that sometimes leads to bit of a divergence in why we're doing what we're doing. 
Toothbrush, cool. 
I heard today about Joseph's death genes that have to go in and kill cell reproduction. 
This is very difficult, and you have to have a bond with your team that permits you to do this, because their life is wrapped up in that too. 
This is 1996 we did this project. And so we sent them off with this team name, Deep Blue. Now many people know Deep Blue from IBM -- we actually stole it from them because we figured if anybody read our faxes they'd think we're talking about computers. 
And a group of engineers worked in Germany, and the idea was they would work separately on this problem of what's the successor to the SUV. 
They would come together, compare notes. Then they would work apart, come together, and they would produce together a monumental set of diverse opinions that didn't pollute each other's ideas -- but at the same time came together and resolved the problems. 
The bathroom was so big, she built the bed over the bathtub -- it's quite fascinating. 
Well, what I didn't know was, and what we found out was -- these guys, they can't even like talk to each other under those conditions. 
There was a whole lot of dialog. 
We spent four hours being told all about vocabulary that needs to be built between engineers and designers. 
Dialog kept on going, with mental maps of words, and pretty soon it was becoming obvious that instead of being dazzled with brilliance, I was seriously being baffled with bullshit. 
Because of course they didn't tell us that they had three station wagons full of drawings, model concepts, pictures -- everything I wanted, they'd locked up in the cars, because they had shown solidarity with the engineers -- and they'd decided not to show me anything, in order to give the chance for problem solving a chance to start, because they hadn't realized, of course, that they couldn't do problem creating. 
It's true that the trust and the love, that makes it worthwhile. 
We didn't sequence his genome. 
And the reason is that cancer, like every cell in the body, places little molecular bookmarks, little Post-it notes, that remind the cell I'm cancer; I should keep growing. 
We just started mailing it to our friends. 
And as we treat it with our compound, this addiction to sugar, this rapid growth, faded. 
And in fact, this molecule prevents this adipocyte, this fat stem cell, from remembering how to make fat such that mice on a high fat diet, like the folks in my hometown of Chicago, fail to develop fatty liver, which is a major medical problem. 
This molecule will soon leave our benches and go into a small startup company called Tensha Therapeutics. 
I've never seen really anywhere this unique support for cancer research. 
The age of the universe, between now and the Big Bang, is a hundred billion in dog years. 
If you looked at one of these galaxies and measured its velocity, it would be moving away from you. 
And if you look at a galaxy even farther away, it would be moving away faster. 
That kind of makes sense to us. 
The air in this room is very smooth. 
In particular, things were a lot denser. 
What you have to think about is we have a universe with a hundred billion galaxies, a hundred billion stars each. 
We'd like to understand that. 
One of the people who did understand that this was a problem was Richard Feynman. 
The arrow of time cannot be completely understood until the mystery of the beginnings of the history of the universe are reduced still further from speculation to understanding. 
It's not true that we've figured it out by now. 
The reason the problem has gotten worse, rather than better, is because in 1998 we learned something crucial about the universe that we didn't know before. 
And so even though the universe will last forever, and ordinary matter and radiation will dilute away, there will always be some radiation, some thermal fluctuations, even in empty space. 
It will probably increase, and the probability is enormously huge. 
Remember, life itself depends on the arrow of time. 
Occasionally, you will make a planet or a star or a galaxy or a hundred billion galaxies. 
Now your homework assignment is to really think about this, to contemplate what it means. 
I just showed you this picture. 
They all happen over a period of time equal to 10 to the 10 to the 120 years. 
So here's two questions for you. 
Maybe there is something that naturally, through the growth of the laws of physics, gives rise to universe like ours in low entropy configurations. 
My bold speculation is that I will be absolutely vindicated by history. 
And 50 years from now, all of my current wild ideas will be accepted as truths by the scientific and external communities. 
This is a prediction. I might be wrong. 
I would like to share that story today. 
Like everyone else, we grew maize. 
I felt very happy to be at the secondary school, so I was determined to do anything possible to receive education. 
So I went to a library. 
So I would like to say something to all the people out there like me to the Africans, and the poor who are struggling with your dreams. 
God bless. 
Unlike most of our computing devices, these objects are much more fun to use. 
A gesture of Namaste!, maybe, to respect someone, or maybe -- in India I don't need to teach a kid that this means four runs in cricket. 
So, I was interested in these two rollers, and I actually wanted more, so I borrowed another mouse from a friend -- never returned to him -- and I now had four rollers. 
What I got is basically a gesture interface device that actually acts as a motion-sensing device made for two dollars. 
What we are interested in is information. 
So I thought, around last year -- in the beginning of the last year -- I started thinking, Why can I not take this approach in the reverse way? 
But later, I realized that I actually wanted to interact with those digital pixels, also. 
You stop by a wall, and start painting on that wall. 
So, technically, it's a little bit complex, but it gives you an output which is more intuitive to use, in some sense. 
Rather than getting your camera out of your pocket, you can just do the gesture of taking a photo and it takes a photo for you. 
Once it has that information, it finds out more reviews about that, or maybe New York Times has a sound overview on that, so you can actually hear, on a physical book, a review as sound. 
So, I was seeing the live [video] of his talk, outside, on just a newspaper. 
So, what I did here is remove the camera -- All the webcam cameras have a microphone inside the camera. 
and I am a Wilderness Explorer in Tribe 54.) And you can of course play games. 
Yeah. And I say, OK, this looks nice, let me print it out, that thing. 
Thank you. 
This is incredible, really. 
And now, if you see, it's more about the cost-effectiveness: this system costs you $300 compared to the $20,000 surface tables, or anything like that. 
Or maybe even the $2 mouse gesture system at that time was costing around $5,000? 
No, this theory comes from an expert on barnacles and worms and pigeon breeding, and you know who I mean: Charles Darwin. 
Taste for both natural beauty and for the arts travel across cultures with great ease. 
Now, I personally have no doubt whatsoever that the experience of beauty, with its emotional intensity and pleasure, belongs to our evolved human psychology. 
Now, keeping these ideas firmly in mind, we can say that the experience of beauty is one of the ways that evolution has of arousing and sustaining interest or fascination, even obsession, in order to encourage us toward making the most adaptive decisions for survival and reproduction. 
Beauty is nature's way of acting at a distance, so to speak. 
Consider briefly an important source of aesthetic pleasure, the magnetic pull of beautiful landscapes. 
Their symmetry, their attractive materials and, above all, their meticulous workmanship are simply quite beautiful to our eyes, even today. 
Competently made hand axes indicated desirable personal qualities -- intelligence, fine motor control, planning ability, conscientiousness and sometimes access to rare materials. 
So before I talk about this car for the blind, let me briefly tell you about another project that I worked on called the DARPA Urban Challenge. 
Now this was about building a robotic car that can drive itself. 
So it's a small tablet, has many holes in it, and compressed air comes out, so it can actually draw images. 
And he's [unclear] following that van that's out in front of him. 
So since we started this project, we've been getting hundreds of letters, emails, phone calls from people from all around the world. 
But potentially more important than this is the tremendous value of the spin-off technology that can come from this project. 
Why do we call it that? 
I don't know, Taiwan Straits 2025. 
Let's talk about an enemy embedded within that battle space. 
They said we couldn't do Iraq. 
You have to create internal partners. You have to access coalition partners. 
We asked the Russians for 40,000. 
They said no. 
Like Saddam, like Mugabe, like Kim Jong-Il -- people who kill in hundreds of thousands or millions. 
Like the 250,000 dead so far in Sudan. 
And let's call this red line, I don't know, mission accomplished. 
What we need downstream is a great power enabled -- what I call that Sys Admin Force. 
You've got to track coalition partners. Create a record of success. 
So they start moving from reality towards desire and they create their own special language to describe their voyage of self-discovery and self-actualization. 
We bought one military and we operated another. 
I used to give this brief inside the Pentagon in the early 1990s. 
Bad Pentagon, bad! 
It elevates MOOTW -- how we pronounce that acronym -- from crap to grand strategy, because that's how you're going to shrink that gap. 
A Department of War, a Department of Everything Else. 
Our long-term rationale becomes, we're involved in a hair trigger stand off with the Soviets. 
The question is how do we reconnect American national security with global security to make the world a lot more comfortable, and to embed and contextualize our employment of force around the planet? 
Just be grateful Robert Reed didn't shove that bomb up his ass. 
I love this force. I don't want to see it go. 
What does this mean in terms of operations? 
The force on the right, in and out. 
The force on the right's going to obliterate it. 
Different definitions of network centricity. 
But ultimately you're going to civilianize it, probably two thirds. 
But you need lots of these guys on the ground to win the peace. 
The point about the trigger-pullers and Special Operations Command. 
See me now. Don't talk about it later. 
The world is my playground. 
I want the rules to be as loose as possible. 
The town was burned down; it was in the middle of winter, and it was a very, very severe winter. 
And that's what we're going through at this time. 
I wanted to just talk for one minute about the future of biotechnology, because I think I know very little about that -- I'm not a biologist -- so everything I know about it can be said in one minute. 
But that's hard to do. Unfortunately, the ice is thick. 
But we can look outside, very cheaply and in a simple fashion. 
And the step from the ocean to the land was not easy, but it happened. 
So they would have to have something like a reptilian skin. 
The sunlight in Jupiter, on the satellites of Jupiter, is 25 times fainter than it is here, since Jupiter is five times as far from the Sun. 
This was -- originally, when radio astronomy began, Mr. Jansky, at the Bell labs, detected radio waves coming from the sky. 
Since there was nothing there, you might as well not look. 
There is something called pit lamping. 
So these creatures will be bright against the cold surroundings. 
I call these creatures sunflowers. 
If we don't find them, then we can create them ourselves. 
In the long run, of course, it would also make it possible for us to move out there. 
But in the long run, if there's no life there, we create it ourselves. 
So again, we have a big and wonderful future to look forward. 
Thank you. 
And I realized then I had to go to design school. 
or What's this Num Lock key for? You know, that thing? 
And I didn't want to be a colorist. 
And that allows me to check my timer discretely, here, without bending my elbow. 
And something a little bit more experimental: this is a light fixture for Swarovski, and what it does is, it changes shape. 
And the new experience I was looking for is giving the choice for the user to go from a warm, sort of glowing kind of mood light, all the way to a bright work light. 
I want to point at something here, on the left. 
And this allows the bottle to turn into a game. 
The bottles connect together, and you can create different shapes, different forms. 
And then the integration of all these great technologies, which you've heard about, the Wi-Fi antennas that allow the kids to connect; the screen, which you can read in sunlight; the keyboard, which is made out of rubber, and it's protected from the environment. 
And if anybody asks why you're carrying a condom, you can just say you like the design. 
Much of my life has been a quest to get some answers to these questions. 
I was born and raised here in India, and I learned from an early age to be deeply suspicious of the aunties and uncles who would bend down, pat us on the head and then say to my parents with no problem at all, Poor things. You only have three daughters. 
Late that night, I heard my mother begging my father, Please do something Ramu. Can't you intervene? 
This is tradition. 
She said to me, It is not about the burka. 
Had I heard right? 
She is on the Taliban's hit list. 
Their path is their own and it looks towards an Afghanistan that will be different. 
Their repertoire includes the Croatian national anthem, a Bosnian love song and Serbian duets. 
In the Middle Ages, troubadours would travel across the land singing their tales and sharing their verses: Lesbor travels through the Balkans like this, singing, connecting people divided by religion, nationality and language. 
The world Layma Bowie was given was a world at war. 
At the next Friday sermon, the women who were sitting in the side room of the mosque began to share their distress at the state of affairs. 
In a now famous CNN clip, you can see them sitting on the ground, their arms linked. 
The police are called in to physically remove the women. 
And then you realize that by integrating aspects of tradition and community into their struggles, women like Sakena and Leah and Layma -- but also women like Sonia Gandhi here in India and Michelle Bachelet in Chile and Shirin Ebadi in Iran -- are doing something else. 
And the first thing I wanted to do as a Muslim was go to Mecca and visit the Kaaba, the holiest shrine of Islam. 
And I did that; I put on my ritualistic dress; I went to the holy mosque; I did my prayers; I observed all the rituals. 
In other words, men and women were worshiping all together. 
And I think it's not an accident that you don't find this idea in the very origin of Islam. 
On the other hand, the Westerners who look at Islamic culture and see some troubling aspects should not readily conclude that this is what Islam ordains. 
And the religious police imposes the supposed Islamic way of life on every citizen, by force -- like women are forced to cover their heads -- wear the hijab, the Islamic head cover. 
Let me give you an example: in Turkey where I come from, which is a very hyper-secular republic, until very recently we used to have what I call secularism police, which would guard the universities against veiled students. 
In other words, they would force students to uncover their heads, and I think forcing people to uncover their head is as tyrannical as forcing them to cover it. 
Which means that Muslims can, today, look at those things and say, Well, the core of our religion is here to stay with us. 
And even the very extreme forms of Islamism led to terrorism in the name of Islam -- which is actually a practice that I think is against Islam, but some, obviously, extremists did not think that way. 
And I think the West, at least some powers in the West, particularly the United States, made the mistake of supporting those secular dictators, thinking that they were more helpful for their interests. 
Secondly, in the past two decades, thanks to globalization, thanks to the market economy, thanks to the rise of a middle-class, we in Turkey see what I define as a rebirth of Islamic modernism. 
As a photographer for National Geographic, I've portrayed it for many. 
And where that energy touches water, something new emerges: life. 
Shallow seas nurtured life early on, and that's where it morphed into more complex forms. 
The fundamental forms of ferns followed, to bear spores that foreshadowed seeds. 
Leatherbacks and tuataras are echoes from that era. 
Jurassic Park still shimmers in part of Madagascar, and the center of Brazil, where plants called cycads remain rock hard. 
Flamingos covered continents. Migrations got underway. 
Water lilies were among the first. 
In Africa, Gondwana molded Proteas. 
Tropical rainforests arose, sparking new layers of interdependence. 
a trick shared by the largest flower on Earth. 
An asteroid hits, and the world went down in flames. 
Primates emerge from jungles, as tarsiers first, becoming lemurs not much later. 
And you all here today can imagine and will shape where we go next. 
Today I want to talk to you about ethnic conflict and civil war. 
But let's start at the beginning. 
Well, notwithstanding the gloomy pictures from the Middle East, Darfur, Iraq, elsewhere, there is a longer-term trend that does represent some good news. 
The news about civilian casualties is also less bad than it used to be. 
Thus, even though every civilian killed, maimed, raped, or tortured is one too many, the fact that the number of civilian casualties is clearly lower today than it was a decade ago, is good news. 
But let's look at the good news again. 
But then, is Northern Ireland a unique example, or does this kind of explanation only hold more generally in democratic and developed countries? 
A final example: Kosovo. 
Central among them are three. 
By the same token -- and here we have some good news again -- the very fact that there is a high-level, well-resourced international presence in Kosovo and the Balkans region more generally and the fact that local leaders on both sides have showed relative restraint, explains why things have not been worse over the past two years since 2008. 
A final thought: Ending civil wars is a process that is fraught with dangers, frustrations and setbacks. 
Thank you. 
I'm going to talk about some of my discoveries around the world through my work. 
And at that young age, 10 years old, Benki became the paje of his community. 
He went 3,000 miles on an odyssey to Rio to the Earth Summit to tell the world what was happening in his tiny, little corner. 
Benki came back to his village full of ideas -- new technologies, new research, new ways of understanding what was going on. 
He's built schools to teach children to care for the forest. 
Together, he's led the reforestation of over 25 percent of the land that had been destroyed by the loggers. 
Why are you putting yourself at risk? 
So when I think of that, I wonder what our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren, when they ask themselves that question, I wonder how they will answer. 
For me, the world is veering towards a future we don't much want when we really think about it deep inside. 
You also know that we can't just keep doing what we've always done, because we'll get the results we've always gotten. 
We have to change. 
It's imperative to me, when I look around the world, that we need to change ourselves. 
Sanghamitra didn't start life as a leader of an NGO, she started her career as university professor, teaching English literature. 
They take care of 20,000-odd people today in over 1,000 villages around Karnataka. 
They've pioneered a different approach to villages. 
Instead of handing out information in pamphlets, as is so often the case, they bring theater troupes, songs, music, dance. 
Sanghamitra told me just last week -- she had just come back from two weeks in the villages, and she had a real breakthrough. 
He has nine other buildings -- that are already open to the public -- filled to the rafters with artifacts documenting contemporary Chinese history. 
They looked outside, and then they changed what was on the inside. 
They've gone away from what they did before, and they've gone to something they didn't know. 
He went around once, he went around twice, he went around thrice. 
And so, when you study it, you realize that different people of the world have a different understanding of the world. 
Perhaps he was a Jain monk, like Bahubali over here, the Gomateshwara Bahubali whose image is not far from Mysore. 
Alexander asked, What are you doing? 
And they both laughed. 
What should you not be? 
You should not be Sisyphus, who rolls a rock up a mountain all day only to find the boulder rolled down at night. 
And he wanted to hoist his flag to say, I was here first. 
This was the mythology of the gymnosophist. 
But they were not two characters on two different adventures. 
You see, the Indians also had a river that separates the land of the living from the land of the dead. 
You go again and again and again. 
Two different mythologies, two different ways of looking at the world. 
And I believe it is this mythological paradigm that inspired Indian mathematicians to discover the number zero. 
Who knows? 
Standard business model: vision, mission, values, processes. 
You see, this is what India is today. The ground reality is based on a cyclical world view. 
I have personally experienced it. I'm trained as a medical doctor. 
And he knew very intuitively, that best practices, developed in Japan and China and Europe and America will not work in India. 
You can't measure it. You can't manage it. 
After a leader completes his training and is about to take over the store, we blindfold him, we surround him with the stakeholders, the customer, his family, his team, his boss. 
That sensitivity is what we need. Once this belief enters, behavior will happen, business will happen. 
But that was interesting in itself. This is companies like Vonage. 
The little box has your phone number. 
It's really cute seeing middle-aged people like me, try out Skype for the first time, which is usually when their kid goes away for a semester abroad. 
They don't want to pay the international fees, so they're like, Timmy! Is that you? 
Imagine if you had an ordinary cell phone, and any time you were in a wireless hotspot -- free calls anywhere in the world, never pay the cellular company a nickel. 
And when you're out of the hotspot, you're on the regular cellular network. 
You're thinking, Well, how often am I in a hotspot? 
Because they give you a regular wireless router that works with the phone, for your house. 
They don't have that kind of money. Instead they give each of us a seven-dollar-and-95-cent box. They're like a stealth tower installation program. 
Now, I'm leaving the house. DP: I'm going for a walk -- do you mind? 
I don't know why my wife says I never listen to her. I don't get that. 
I have two cellphones, so this going to be very odd, if it works. 
Excuse me one second. 
All right! We've made the point. 
The beauty of that is you never miss a call. 
Google bought it, and they've been working on it for a year. 
I actually got a photograph of the Verizon employee right there. 
Anyway, so lets say you need a drugstore near Chicago. 
Here it comes. 
And it's already written down -- so, like, if you're driving, you don't have to do one of these things, Uh huh, uh huh, uh huh. 
Shortly I'll tell you why I was in Milan. 
That's cute. I do have an email address. You can just ask me. 
It's absolutely phenomenal. The only downside is that it requires you to know how to text -- send a text message. Nobody over 40 knows how to do that. 
So I'm going to teach you something even better. 
They put this teeny-weeny little ad, about 10 characters long. 
Because there is one! 
As you can imagine, it's college kids and old people. 
When I call to leave you a message, I get 15 seconds of instructions from a third-grade teacher on Ambien! 
So now I'm going to tell you how to get out of that. 
The reason I think that is that on the first day I tried one of these services, I got two voicemail messages. One was from a guy named Michael Stevenson, which shouldn't be that hard to transcribe, and it was misspelled. 
I love my job. 
I'm not kidding you. The message said, Was walking along the street and sky was blue and emergency! 
And lastly, I just have to talk about this one. 
Phone: Well, that's good. 
What are you doing? 
Actually, even so, he was turned down by Verizon and others. 
It's got bad things and good things. Lets all acknowledge that right now. 
It's absurd. We have power outlets in every room of every building. We have running water. 
You type in what you want, and it gives you the translation. 
I know. It's insane, right? 
It will immediately play you that song or that band. 
If you like that one, or don't like it, you do thumbs-up and thumbs-down. Over time it tailors the songs so that it completely stops playing bad songs. 
It proposes a restaurant. 
And now the end is near. 
I want an iPhone. 
Who cares if it's AT&amp;T? 
Because the breast has become are very political organ. 
I will do my best this morning to tell you what I think is the truth. 
But first, my disclosures. 
She came to see me after discovering a breast lump. 
You may recall a year ago when a firestorm erupted after the United States Preventive Services Task Force reviewed the world's mammography screening literature and issued a guideline recommending against screening mammograms in women in their 40s. 
Screening the average young woman with an MRI is kind of like driving to the grocery store in a Hummer. 
But the problem was that the gamma detectors were these huge, bulky tubes, and they were filled with these scintillating crystals, and you just couldn't get them close enough around the breast to find small tumors. 
To say that we faced high doses of skepticism in those early years is just a huge understatement, but we were so convinced that we might be able to make this work that we chipped away with incremental modifications to this system. 
The patient receives an injection of a radio tracer that's taken up by rapidly proliferating tumor cells, but not by normal cells, and this is the key difference from mammography. 
Our big break came in 2004. 
After we had demonstrated that we could find small tumors, we used these images to submit a grant to the Susan G. Komen Foundation. 
And we were elated when they took a chance on a team of completely unknown investigators and funded us to study 1,000 women with dense breasts, comparing a screening mammogram to an MBI. 
Here's an example from that screening study. 
It takes a radiologist years of specialty training to become expert in differentiating the normal anatomic detail from the worrisome finding. 
But I suspect even the non-radiologists in the room can find the tumor on the MBI image. 
After the fourth rejection, we requested reconsideration of the manuscript, because we strongly suspected that one of the reviewers who had rejected it had a financial conflict of interest in a competing technology. 
Some women who develop breast cancer die from it many years later, and most women, thankfully, survive. 
So I worked with white noise. 
And do not be disturbed any more by the other aggressive sound. 
But it is just physiology. It's just in your brain. 
So in order to make this white noise a little bit active and reactive, I create a ball, a rolling ball able to analyze and find where does aggressive sound come from, and roll, at home or at work, towards aggressive noise, and emits white noise in order to neutralize it. 
A loving dispute with your girl or boyfriend. 
Anyway, in this same kind of approach, I designed K. 
I'm just a designer. So I need them. 
And the irony for me was of course, I didn't do that for the sake of science progress. 
I just do that to make money. 
So we took too many of them. 
This one is an antibiotic. 
But in this case it is not the medication that is dependent on the patient. 
So the idea is, all night long the elastic skin of the third lung will slowly inflate itself, including air and molecules, for sure. 
You have to know, or you probably already know, that indoor air pollution is more toxic than outdoor one. 
So while I'm talking to you, the seats you are sit on are currently emitting some invisible and odorless toxic gas. Sorry for that. 
So your sofa, your plastic chair, your kid's toys give their own invisible reality. And this one is very toxic. 
This one is kind of the same approach because I include, in a product like Andrea, some plants. 
Indeed, this object is a domestic farm, for fishes and green. 
So the idea of this object is to be able to get at home very local food. 
After, it goes back into the fish tank. 
Now we can eat local food. 
See, like this one? 
You can see it there. 
We're the new technologists. 
I think about World War II -- some of our great technologists then, some of our great physicists, studying nuclear fission and fusion -- just nuclear stuff. 
We want the people building the technology thinking about what we should be doing with the technology. 
So we can protect ourselves if he was up to no good? 
So to get people warmed up, let's start with an easy question -- something I'm sure everybody here has an opinion about: iPhone versus Android. 
But he was worried that all we seem to be doing is trading opinions about this. 
In math, we know the objective facts. 
It's an objective truth about the form of two, the abstract form. 
Then you would know what was really just and what wasn't. 
If you think that way, you have a Platonist moral framework. 
He thought it was impractical. 
It's just a matter of the consequences. 
Kant was very good on this point, and he said it a little better than I'll say it. 
What should we be doing? What's the answer? 
There's not a formula. 
And don't just find another technologist friend; find somebody different than you. 
We care what happens in that opera. 
In the early '80s, some would say. 
The gang had no way to make money. 
So he was a math major in college who had a good heart, and decided he wanted to get a sociology Ph.D., came to the University of Chicago. 
And, in his own words, he looked like a freak. 
So he showed up at the University of Chicago. 
There was a lot of gunfire; there were a lot of philosophical discussions he had with the gang members. 
And you and I, probably, faced with the situation, would think, well, I guess I'm going to write my dissertation on The Grateful Dead. 
But the thing that really makes the gang seem like McDonald's is its franchisees. 
So what do the wages look like? So you might be surprised. 
We found in our gang -- and, admittedly, this was not really sort of a standard situation; this was a time of intense violence -- of a lot of gang wars -- as this gang actually became quite successful. But there were costs. 
That makes you pause -- gives you some pause -- those of you who believe that a death penalty's going to have an enormous deterrent effect on crime. 
That the young people controlled the gang -- that, as you got older, you dropped out of the gang. 
So what happened was, the people who happened to be in the right place at the right time -- the people who happened to be leading the gang in the mid- to late '80s -- became very, very wealthy. 
You know, he would say to his friends, Hey, look at all the money I got in the gang. 
Often, our theories fail quite miserably when we go to the data. 
This is one of the basic ideas in labor economics, called a compensating differential. 
It's why we think garbage men might be paid more than people who work in parks, OK? 
So in the words of one of the members of the gang I think makes this clear. 
And the words of a gang member capture it quite nicely. 
If you start taking losses, they see you as weak and shit. 
And I thought about it, and I said, CEOs often pay themselves million-dollar bonuses, even when companies are losing a lot of money. 
Also different aerobatic maneuvers are possible with a paraglider. 
You can see the skydiver with the red suit, he's in a stand-up position. 
This is a jump I did in Rio de Janeiro. 
2005 I did a BASE jump from the Eiger, from the Monk and from the Jungfrau, three very famous mountains in Switzerland. 
June Cohen: I have some questions. 
Yet. But people are trying. Are you among those -- you're not going to commit -- are you among those trying to do it? 
It's a dream. It's a dream. Yeah. 
And is that how you usually fly? 
Do people come to you with projects and say, We want you to do this! 
I don't necessarily think the film is so interesting. 
The show was, in a sense, about that. 
I also put a mirror in the ceiling, and some fog, some haze. 
And what happens is that people, they start to see themselves in this space. 
What does it matter? 
It makes a difference whether you say, I'm a part of this city. 
It's quite simple and fundamental. 
It doesn't really tell you what you're looking at. 
Or is that a three-hour hike, or is that a whole day I'm looking at? 
If you have a waterfall in there, right out there at the horizon; you look at the waterfall and you go, Oh, the water is falling really slowly. 
And experience is not just a kind of entertainment in a non-casual way. 
So art, in that sense, I think holds an incredible relevance in the world in which we're moving into, particularly right now. 
What I really enjoyed about this project is reviving these people's words. 
So, what we're going to do next is a poem that was written by Nathalia Crane. 
The next poem is If No One Ever Marries Me. 
He went there after the death of his wife of smallpox and brought his two young children. 
Just bring it down a little.  
Thank you so much. 
Or this idea of the misunderstood genius, frustrated that the world doesn't fit in with his or her ideas. 
And quite often we sit in a design meeting and we discover that there is this great idea. 
But for another client in another culture, it could really be the right answer to a different question. 
And they chose this mascot because the theme of the expo is Better City, Better Life. 
But then we looked at recent urban development, and we noticed that this is like a Shanghai street, 30 years ago. All bikes, no cars. 
So if you come to the expo, go straight to the Danish pavilion, get a Danish bike, and then continue on that to visit the other pavilions. 
And in the middle of this sort of harbor bath, we're actually going to put the actual Little Mermaid. 
So the second story that I'd like to tell is, actually starts in my own house. 
And we discovered that by controlling the size of the holes, we could actually turn the entire facade into a gigantic, naturally ventilated, rasterized image. 
It has no water. It has no energy, no resources. 
They accumulate the solar energy. 
Yes, maybe just to round off. 
I'm just going to list some of them. 
Where should we start on solving these problems? 
To climate change that would be like Kyoto. 
I'd love to go into, and get you to think about this process, and that's actually what we did. 
Of course, you have to ask yourself, why on Earth was such a list never done before? 
Nobody wants to do this. 
We'd like to know these things. 
Three of the world's top experts saying, what can we do? 
What would be the price? 
And of course, I'm very happy you asked that question --  -- because that's a very good question. 
This offends a lot of people, and that's probably one of the things where people will say I shouldn't come back, either. 
And I'd like to talk about that, because that's really curious. 
The reason why they came up with saying that Kyoto -- or doing something more than Kyoto -- is a bad deal is simply because it's very inefficient. 
It's not to say that if we had all the money in the world, we wouldn't want to do it. 
There are many problems out there in the world. 
And what I want to make sure of is, if we actually focus on problems, that we focus on the right ones. 
The ones where we can do a lot of good rather than a little good. 
And of course, we'll be even richer than that. 
We have, you know, The Day After Tomorrow -- it looks great, right? 
It's not about making things that have the most media attention, but it's about making places where we can actually do the most good. 
But the point, of course, is still to say, if you get another 100 billion dollars, we still want to spend that in the best possible way, don't we? 
So we actually invited 80 young people from all over the world to come and solve the same problem. 
My studio in Bali was only 10 minutes away from a monkey forest, and monkeys, of course, are supposed to be the happiest of all animals. 
The serif is not really in place. 
And the rider thinks that he can tell the elephant what to do, but the elephant really has his own ideas. 
And from that point of view we turned it into a lovely project. 
We stir this in until it's completely dissolved and then pour it into a growth bath. 
And then we're ready to add the living organism. 
And actually, in hot weather, I can just grow it outside. 
But I do think it could be quite a smart and sustainable addition to our increasingly precious natural resources. 
Thank you very much. 
Suzanne Lee.  
I made contact with a child from Swat who studied in a madrassa like this. 
How do the Taliban in your area get people to join them? 
Then they take us to a madrassa and teach us things from the Koran. 
They ask us to use them only against the infidels. 
SOC: I, in my research, have seen that the Taliban have perfected the way in which they recruit and train children, and I think it's a five-step process. 
These children are explicitly forbidden from reading newspapers, listening to radio, reading any books that the teachers do not prescribe them. 
Effectively, the Taliban create a complete blackout of any other source of information for these children. 
He blew himself up, killing six. 
Two years ago here at TED I reported that we had discovered at Saturn, with the Cassini Spacecraft, an anomalously warm and geologically active region at the southern tip of the small Saturnine moon Enceladus, seen here. 
While they're not amino acids, we're now finding things like propane and benzene, hydrogen cyanide, and formaldehyde. 
So we are very encouraged by these results. 
And this is quite an extraordinary idea, but it is reality today. 
This was created by an architectural firm called Shiro. 
And you can actually walk into it. 
Now 3D printing can break away barriers in design which challenge the constraints of mass production. 
There's a lower chance of rejection. 
The piece of software will keep an individual within the bounds of the possible. 
I don't think that will happen soon. 
We're now, instead of shipping a product across the world, we're sending data across the Internet. 
And applying this to the idea of building up what's in our bodies. 
So one of the pioneers, for example, is Dr. Anthony Atala, and he has been working on layering cells to create body parts -- bladders, valves, kidneys. 
We like different things. 
I've been working on issues of poverty for more than 20 years, and so it's ironic that the problem that and question that I most grapple with is how you actually define poverty. What does it mean? 
And I would see kids on the street corners, and they'd say Obama, he's our brother! 
And she said, You know, the poverty wasn't so bad. It was the humiliation and the embarrassment of it all. 
And I say, 'Look at me. You are not dead. 
And in the middle of this economic crisis, where so many of us are inclined to pull in with fear, I think we're well suited to take a cue from Jane and reach out, recognizing that being poor doesn't mean being ordinary. 
It was a really big excitement for me to get into Caltech. 
And I concluded, after researching every other technology that we could deploy for storing energy -- flywheels, different formulations of batteries -- it just wasn't practical to store energy. 
There are a lot of new things that are happening to do that, but fundamentally the process requires a tremendous amount of energy. 
So I tried to figure out what other way could we try and make cost-effective solar electricity. 
Traditionally, concentrators look like this. 
Your efficiency goes down with more bounces, because you lose about 10 percent with each bounce, but this allowed us to collect light from a plus or minus 25 degree angle. 
So, once you have mobility, now you're making a lot of engines because you've got lots of units, as opposed to steam ships or big factories where you're not making as many units, so this was the engine that ended up benefiting from mass production where all the other engines didn't benefit. 
So we tried to look at the Stirling engine in a new way, because it was practical -- weight no longer mattered for our application The internal combustion engine took off because weight mattered because you were moving around. 
So someone came up with a very clever idea, to -- instead of heating the whole cylinder and cooling the whole cylinder, what about if you put a displacer inside -- a little thing that shuttles the air back and forth. 
We measured each one, we readjusted the model to what we measured, and then we led that to the current prototype. 
It led to a very compact, inexpensive engine, and this is what the engine looks like. 
So an example of that is, here's the map of the United States. 
And of course, look at Africa. 
There's 10,000 watts of light pouring on the stage, one horsepower is 756 watts, at full power. 
But, everywhere around us we have insatiable use for energy because it's so cheap. 
And it's cheap because we've been subsidized by energy that's been concentrated by the sun. 
Headlines that look like this when they have to do with climate change, and headlines that look like this when they have to do with air quality or smog. 
And this is the tower from below. 
So, as you can imagine, the inside of this aircraft doesn't look like any plane you would take on vacation. 
We do all of this to understand the chemistry of one molecule. 
What I am always thinking about is what this session is about, which is called simplicity. 
So, I was fortunate enough to be born a very dreamy child. 
And that was a good thing to help, you know, the cause. 
But, then he came back, and things happened, and I decided I really hated my writing, that it was awful, awful, purple prose. 
Well, Tibor really started the studio, called M&amp;Co. 
That to be able to talk about content, to break apart what you normally expect, to use humor and surprise, elegance and humanity in your work was really important to us. 
I don't really -- I mean, I could tell you that I didn't understand, I'm not proud of it, but I didn't understand let's say 95 percent of the talks at this conference. 
So, I'm open to the possibilities of not knowing and finding out something new. 
And so, I was able to put that into this story, which is an alphabet, and hopefully go on to something else. 
I work for the New Yorker, and I do covers, and 9/11 happened and it was, you know, a complete and utter end of the world as we knew it. 
We hoped we'd be funny, but we didn't know it would be a cover, and we didn't know that that image, at the moment that it happened, would be something that would be so wonderful for a lot of people. 
And David Remnick, who was really wonderful about it, had one problem. He didn't like Al Zheimers, because he thought it would insult people with Alzheimer's. 
And, He noticed a large stain in the center of the rug. 
So, what I did when I was painting was I started singing, because I really adore singing, and I think that music is the highest form of all art. 
I happen to know it for a fact. 
Maybe amongst themselves they had a few good laughs, but Stalin was a paranoid man, even more than my father. 
Which I think I made up, which is a good thing. 
I received a box in the mail and it was wrapped with newspaper and there was the picture of the man on the newspaper and he was dead. 
And I really spend a lot of time wondering, how much truth do we tell? 
How do we know when we are ourselves? 
A quote by Bertrand Russell, All the labor of all the ages, all the devotion, all the inspiration, all the noonday brightness of human genius are destined to extinction. 
And I would like to run it for them. 
And it says, Ich habe genug, which is a Bach cantata, which I once thought meant I've had it, I can't take it anymore, give me a break, but I was wrong. 
I thought that things would be pretty fun and there would be more things to play with. 
So, since we've been here this week, we've taken millions of breaths, collectively, and perhaps we haven't witnessed any course changes happening in our lives, but we often miss the very subtle changes. 
So we threw in -- we created a primordial soup with lots of pieces of robots -- with bars, with motors, with neurons. 
We're concerned in the national security community, and of course in the biology community and the public health community. 
It's also carried on migration patterns of wild migratory aquatic birds. 
So what have people been doing with this money? 
Let's everybody run around and play your role. 
Most local facilities would all be competing to try and get their hands on their piece of the federal stockpile of a drug called Tamiflu, which may or may not be helpful -- I'll get into that -- of available vaccines, and any other treatments, and masks, and anything that's been stockpiled. 
And you'll have massive competition. 
During the SARS epidemic in Beijing quarantine did seem to help. 
And their hand got contaminated with the outside of the mask, and then they rubbed their nose. Bingo! They got SARS. 
The pandemic circulated three times in 18 months in the absence of commercial air travel. 
This was based on European and North American data. 
And that a more likely toll is somewhere in the neighborhood of 80 to 100 million people before we had commercial air travel. 
So are we ready? 
If you expand that out to think of a whole community, or all your employees in your company, you begin to realize how limited the Tamiflu option might be. 
But really? Do you really have a place to stockpile 18 months worth of food? Twenty-four months worth of food? 
Do you want to view the pandemic threat the way back in the 1950s people viewed the civil defense issue, and build your own little bomb shelter for pandemic flu? 
And I hope I've convinced you of that, which means that the real job is go out and say to your local leaders, and your national leaders, Why haven't you solved these problems? 
But can you sustain your company that way? 
The moment that you see any evidence of serious human-to-human to transmission. 
The mechanism isn't clear. 
Again we don't really know for sure. 
Audience member: One of the things I've heard is that the real death cause when you get a flu is the associated pneumonia, and that a pneumonia vaccine may offer you 50 percent better chance of survival. 
And so far in the H5N1 cases in people, similarly bacterial infection has not been an issue at all. 
And it won't do any good to bring in the tanks and the artillery because those T-cells don't recognize it either. 
Now my story has a lot to do with dreaming, although I'm known to make my dreams come true. 
One, two, three, four, five, six and seven. 
And I go to see a famous magician and proudly ask him, Well what do you think? 
For the move to be professional, it has to be less than one second and it has to be perfect. 
But in America you have to explain. What are clubs? 
They have to be precisely lathed. 
Anyway, here I was progressing with my new clubs. 
The clubs were escaping me at each throw. 
So I proudly showed him my clubs. 
He said, Philippe, you have been had. 
They are impossible to juggle. 
I get a pair of pliers and some coat hangers, and I gather them together in some kind of ropey path. 
Well within a few days I'm able to do one crossing. 
If not, I will never do that first step. 
It's a straight line, which sags, which sways, which vibrates, which rolls on itself, which is ice, which is three tons tight, ready to explode, ready to swallow me. 
An inner howl assails me, the wild longing to flee. 
I was not interested in collecting the gigantic, in breaking records. 
And something happened. 
He didn't know the true story. 
Trees are wonderful arenas for discovery because of their tall stature, their complex structure, the biodiversity they foster and their quiet beauty. 
The most mysterious part of forests is the upper tree canopy. 
These are not epiphyte roots: these are roots that emerge from the trunk and branch of the host trees themselves. 
We know it's a lot, but we do not yet know the answers to how much, and by what processes, carbon is being taken out of the atmosphere, held in its biomass, and moving on through the ecosystem. 
They ended up making a CD which they took home to their family and friends, thereby expressing their own experiences with nature in their own medium. 
They were incredibly enthusiastic about the work. 
And they embraced the idea that they could help develop a research design in order to grow these mosses. 
We gave talks once a month, and that actually ended up implementing some amazing sustainability projects at the prisons -- organic gardens, worm culture, recycling, water catchment and beekeeping.  
As many of you are aware, the world of academia is a rather inward-looking one. 
I'm trying to help researchers move more outward to have their own partnerships with people outside of the academic community. 
When I look into my heart, I see trees -- this is actually an image of a real heart -- there are trees in our hearts, there are trees in your hearts. 
It was taken 18 years ago. 
There is a problem with scuba though, in that it imposes some limitations on how deep you can go, and it turns out that depth is about 200 feet. 
And there's a phenomenon called Henry's Law that says that gases will dissolve into a fluid in proportion to the partial pressures which you're exposing them to. 
You die also because oxygen toxicity can cause a seizure -- makes you convulse underwater, not a good thing to happen underwater. 
This picture was taken 300 feet deep, catching new species of fish. 
And, indeed, there is a better way. 
Alright, closed-circuit rebreather -- what is it about it that makes it different from scuba, and why is it better? 
Well, there are three main advantages to a rebreather. 
So we need another gas, something to dilute the oxygen with. 
But, if we want to go deeper, of course, we need another gas supply. 
Now, normally you don't have to do that because all of it's done automatically for you with the electronics, the third system of a rebreather. 
And yes, it's a little nerve-wracking. 
So sharks aren't quite as dangerous as most people make them out to be. 
There's a cover story all about the great explorers of our time. 
The last article is an article entitled No New Frontiers. 
Even if you ignore the scientific value of this thing, just look at the monetary value of this thing. 
And then, eventually, I got around to looking in my bucket. 
Now, this one's pretty cool. 
So a very large percentage of what is out there isn't really known. 
We thought we had a handle on all the reef fish diversity -- evidently not. 
At the beginning I told you that I was going to show you two extraordinary photographs. 
The reason I show this -- not to put a downer on everything -- but I just want to use it to key off my philosophy of life in general, which is that we all have two goals. 
The first goal we share with every other living thing on this planet, which is to survive. I call it perpetuation: the survival of the species and survival of ourselves, because they're both about perpetuating the genome. 
You have to balance those two goals. 
But here's what really perplexed me. 
But diagnosing a brain disorder without actually looking at the brain is analogous to treating a patient with a heart problem based on their physical symptoms, without even doing an ECG or a chest X-ray to look at the heart. 
Yet, despite all the advances in medical technology, the diagnosis of brain disorders in one in six children still remained so limited. 
And then I came across a team at Harvard University that had taken one such advanced medical technology and finally applied it, instead of in brain research, towards diagnosing brain disorders in children. 
And another program called Statistical Probability Mapping then performs mathematical calculations to determine whether any of these abnormalities are clinically significant, allowing us to provide a much more accurate neurological diagnosis of the child's symptoms. 
When we used this groundbreaking EEG technology to actually look at Justin's brain, the results were startling. 
But we are now in a new era of neuroscience, one in which we can finally look directly at brain function in real time with no risks and no side effects, non-invasively, and find the true source of so many disabilities in children. 
It's something like life, that once you get in it you can't get out. 
There are two clips I want to show you, the first one is a kind of hodgepodge, its just three little moments, four little moments with three of the people who are here tonight. 
It was built entirely by hand off bamboo scaffolding, people carrying these baskets of concrete on their heads, dumping them in the forms. 
So, those are the two clips I'm going to show. 
I mean as tragic as his death was in a railway station, it was so consistent with his life, you know? 
Man: Yes, it is the national image of Bangladesh. 
No, he never saw this. 
And this is the largest project he has got in here, the poorest country in the world. 
It's a story of nations, of ideologies, of territories, and of conflicts among them. 
Here. 
Are we alone in this vast universe of energy and matter and chemistry and physics? 
Whether we're born in San Francisco, or Sudan, or close to the heart of the Milky Way galaxy, we are the products of a billion-year lineage of wandering stardust. 
Well, what about 10^22? 
That line would have to be 3.8 million miles above this stage. 
I think this is what David Deutsch meant in 2005, when he ended his Oxford TEDTalk by saying he had two principles he'd like to share for living, and he would like to carve them on stone tablets. 
We've been searching ever since, but it's impossible to overstate the magnitude of the search that remains. 
And over those long distances, its signal is very faint when it reaches us. 
But this is a simple signal, and tomorrow we want to be able to find more complex signals. 
This is a very good year. 
2009 is the 400th anniversary of Galileo's first use of the telescope, Darwin's 200th birthday, the 150th anniversary of the publication of On the Origin of Species, the 50th anniversary of SETI as a science, the 25th anniversary of the incorporation of the SETI Institute as a non-profit, and of course, the 25th anniversary of TED. 
The first step would be to tap into the global brain trust, to build an environment where raw data could be stored, and where it could be accessed and manipulated, where new algorithms could be developed and old algorithms made more efficient. 
I'm sorry Seth Godin, but over the millennia, we've seen where tribalism leads. 
It records the annual rise and fall of greenhouse gases and temperatures going back before the onset of the last ice ages. 
Ten times a day, they extract the 10-foot long cylinder of compressed ice crystals that contain the unsullied air and trace chemicals laid down by snow, season after season for thousands of years. 
From this, we can detect an extraordinary number of things. 
Imagine juggling a snowball across the tropics. 
They have to, in fact, make sure this ice never gets warmer than about 20 degrees below zero, otherwise, the key gases inside it will dissipate. 
Early explorers sailed off the edge of the map, and they found a place where the normal rules of time and temperature seem suspended. 
It is a voice of experience. 
It is a voice we should heed. 
This thesis is set out in a book called Winning the Oil Endgame that four colleagues and I wrote and have posted for free at Oilendgame.com -- about 170,000 downloads so far. 
So when we did, we found some very surprising things. 
And serious competition from Europe, from Korea, and next is China, which will soon be a major net exporter of cars. 
The point here is, these cars are going to be made super efficient. 
The question is, who will make them? 
It's financeable in the private capital market. 
And in the upper left, a pioneering effort 14 years ago by GM -- 84 miles a gallon without even using a hybrid, in a four-seater. 
In the airplane business, it's again a similar story where the first 20 percent fuel saving is free, as Boeing is now demonstrating in its new Dreamliner. 
And it turns out that these are quite remarkable for safety. 
The Golf was totaled. 
Because these materials could actually absorb six to 12 times as much energy per pound as steel, and do so a lot more smoothly. 
This expands choice rapidly in the market, and actually makes more money for automakers as well. 
I'd like to deal with the lack of affordable personal mobility in this country by making it very cheaply possible for low-income families to get efficient, reliable, warranted new cars that they could otherwise never get. 
This creates a new million-car-a-year market for Detroit from customers they weren't going to get otherwise, because they weren't creditworthy and could never afford a new car. 
It turns out that if, say, African-American and white households had the same car ownership, it would cut employment disparity about in half by providing better access to job opportunities. 
Just turn it over to the private sector, and we have an Internet. 
Ours is on the demand side. 
I was just coming out of a failed virtual reality business and supporting myself by being on the speaking circuit and writing books -- after twenty years or so in the computer game industry having ideas that people didn't think they could sell. 
And at the end of those remarkable conversations with kids and their best friends across the United States, after two years, we pulled together some survey data from another 10,000 children, drew up a set up of what we thought were the key findings of our research, and spent another year transforming them into design heuristics, for designing computer-based products -- and, in fact, any kind of products -- for little girls, ages eight to 12. 
And these voices will be accompanied by photographs that they took for us of their lives, of the things that they value and care about. 
Girl 3: This is my pretend [unclear] one. 
This is the second day in Rockett's life. 
I wanted to show you the ways, innocuous as they seem, in which we're incorporating what we've learned about girls -- their desires to experience greater emotional flexibility, and to play around with the social complexity of their lives. 
He went through Europe, through World War II, stealing, extorting and occasionally buying various paintings for his collection. 
So he finally found an art dealer, a Dutch art dealer named Han van Meegeren, who sold him a wonderful Vermeer for the cost of what would now be 10 million dollars. 
He had a lesser charge of forgery, got a year sentence and died a hero to the Dutch people. 
Many sociologists like Veblen and Wolfe would argue that the reason why we take origins so seriously is because we're snobs, because we're focused on status. 
Would you eat this? 
Few of you would eat it if it's a rat or a human. 
It's simple, you tell them they're from McDonald's. 
It's very simple: pour it from an expensive bottle. 
It will make a difference if they turn out to be much younger or much older than you think they are. 
That drops the value of it, suggesting that that's one reason why we like it. 
Rather, it's because I want something that has a specific history. 
Who here likes the work of Jackson Pollock? 
And the Washington Post reporter Gene Weingarten decided to enlist him for an audacious experiment. 
So he got Joshua Bell to take his million dollar violin down to a Washington D.C. subway station and stand in the corner and see how much money he would make. 
He actually made 20 dollars more than that, but he didn't count it. 
So she's stunned that he's standing in a subway station. 
One lovely experiment was done by Kurt Gray and Dan Wegner. 
And what I hope to show is that unpicking dodgy claims, unpicking the evidence behind dodgy claims, isn't a kind of nasty carping activity; it's socially useful, but it's also an extremely valuable explanatory tool. 
She, it turns out, has a non-accredited correspondence course Ph.D. 
A glass of red wine a day could help prevent breast cancer. 
So I'm going to tell you about one trial, which is probably the most well-reported trial in the U.K. news media over the past decade. 
And this has been demonstrated in a whole raft of fascinating studies comparing one kind of placebo against another. 
We know from three different studies on three different types of pain that a saltwater injection is a more effective treatment for pain than taking a sugar pill, taking a dummy pill that has no medicine in it -- not because the injection or the pills do anything physically to the body, but because an injection feels like a much more dramatic intervention. 
But that's not enough. 
What I find really fascinating is that the pharmaceutical industry uses exactly the same kinds of tricks and devices, but slightly more sophisticated versions of them, in order to distort the evidence that they give to doctors and patients, and which we use to make vitally important decisions. 
And it's a foregone conclusion, if you give a drug at that high a dose, that it will have more side effects and that your new drug will look better. 
Everybody wanted to show that their drug was better than risperidone, so you see a bunch of trials comparing new antipsychotic drugs against risperidone at eight milligrams a day. 
This is a drug called reboxetine. 
Around half of all of the trial data on antidepressants has been withheld, but it goes way beyond that. 
But the companies withheld that data from them, and so did the European Medicines Agency for three years. 
The infectious diseases Cochrane Group, which are based in Italy, has been trying to get the full data in a usable form out of the drug companies so that they can make a full decision about whether this drug is effective or not, and they've not been able to get that information. 
This is undoubtedly the single biggest ethical problem facing medicine today. 
Thank you very much. 
I saw people struggling to get by, not knowing what was what and what was next. 
You want a better life for yourself. 
There's this thing, this militarization of the world, and it's centered right in the United States. 
And the United States is responsible for almost one half of the world's military spending -- four percent of the world's population. 
And you feel it; you see it every day. 
You say, How is that possible? 
And their leaders, their leaders: before they send their sons and daughters off to war in your country -- and you know the reason -- before they send them off, they go to a Christian church, and they pray to their Christian God, and they ask for protection and guidance from that god. 
Why? 
They do wonderful things, but they also do the bad things, and you can't tell the difference. 
And this guy, you get a guy like Lt. Gen. William Boykin. 
And you're thinking, God, if this guy is saying that, then all the soldiers must be saying that. 
And this word here, George Bush called this war a crusade. 
It's a holy war against Muslims. 
You feel frightened. Of course you feel frightened. 
He wants to burn Korans, our holy book. 
You don't know that. 
So here. 
And this is a perspective. 
So here's what I want you to do. 
I'm going out to defend your freedom, your lives. 
And if I can get you to step into their shoes and walk an inch, one tiny inch, then imagine the kind of sociological analysis that you can do in all other aspects of your life. 
Thank you. 
It was only in the second half of the 20th century that we slowly began to pull ourselves out of this abyss. 
You know in 1950 the typical ship carried 5,000 to 10,000 tons worth of goods. 
Today a container ship can carry 150,000 tons; it can be manned with a smaller crew; and unloaded faster than ever before. 
And I think, as you'll see, there's reasons for optimism, because I believe that the best is yet to come. 
Well how else can we create new ideas? 
How else can we create new ideas? 
That is a good thing. 
How many Ramanujans are there in India today toiling in the fields, barely able to feed themselves, when they could be feeding the world? 
Twenty-first century could easily be 3.3, even higher percent. 
Even at that rate, by 2100 average GDP per capita in the world will be $200,000. 
That's not that far. 
But some of our grandchildren probably will. 
What about a great depression? 
Now let's imagine that you were an economist in 1929, trying to forecast future growth for the United States, not knowing that the economy was about to go off a cliff, not knowing that we were about to enter the greatest economic disaster certainly in the 20th century. 
In the last 30 years, thanks to explorations in remote parts of the world and advances in technology, biologists have, for example, added a full one-third of the known frog and other amphibian species, to bring the current total to 5,400, and more continue to pour in. 
Two new kinds of whales have been discovered, along with two new antelopes, dozens of monkey species and a new kind of elephant -- and even a distinct kind of gorilla. 
Consider the nematode roundworm, the most abundant of all animals. 
But that number of bacteria species can be found in one gram of soil, just a little handful of soil, in the 10 billion bacteria that would be there. 
My own epiphany as a conservationist came in 1953, while a Harvard graduate student, searching for rare ants found in the mountain forests of Cuba, ants that shine in the sunlight -- metallic green or metallic blue, according to species, and one species, I discovered, metallic gold. 
And the final letter is O, for over-harvesting -- driving species into extinction by excessive hunting and fishing. 
That's in the United States. 
But what excites me is that since I first put forward this particular idea in that form, science has advanced. 
I wish you would help them. 
The encyclopedia will quickly pay for itself in practical applications. 
The idea that in that room at that moment, everyone, regardless of their age, their gender, their race, their color, their religion, comes together. 
Let's start with technology. 
All right. Let's start with theater. 
But the teachers came to me afterward and told me they hadn't seen the kids that attentive. 
Zero does not speak, is neither man nor woman. 
And that usually, if you're a bit extraordinary, if you're not exactly of human appearance, then people will feel inclined to participate and to feel out loud. 
I've worked as a doctor clown in a hospital for two years. 
It's a human and technological revolution. 
And well, of course, the Dutch can't eat all these pigs. 
And what I was curious about -- because historically, the whole pig would be used up until the last bit so nothing would be wasted -- and I was curious to find out if this was actually still the case. 
And in cheesecake and all kinds of desserts, like chocolate mousse, tiramisu, vanilla pudding, everything that's cooled in the supermarket, there's gelatin to make it look good. 
Fine bone china -- this is a real classic. 
I was not planning on showing you any meat because, of course, half the book's meat and you probably all know what meats they are. 
And the reason for this is that pigs are actually quite close to human beings, so the collagen is as well. 
And they said, Well the director of the company decided not to let you borrow this heart valve, because want his product to be associated with pigs. 
Well it is, because everything that can't be used for anything else is made into a fuel that can be used as renewable energy source. 
This is a picture of Maurice Druon, the Honorary Perpetual Secretary of L'Academie francaise, the French Academy. 
We see it in the constant appearance of slang and jargon, of the historical change in languages, in divergence of dialects and the formation of new languages. 
The problem is, which verbs go in which constructions? 
A transitive verb mandates that there has to be an object there: Sam devoured the pizza. You can't just say, Sam devoured. 
There are dozens or scores of verbs of this type, each of which shapes its sentence. 
First, there's a level of fine-grained conceptual structure, which we automatically and unconsciously compute every time we produce or utter a sentence, that governs our use of language. 
Or, The meeting went from three to four, in which we conceive of time as stretched along a line. 
Or, Rose forced herself to go, as if there were two entities inside Rose's head, engaged in a tug of a war. 
And I'll start out with a puzzle, the puzzle of indirect speech acts. 
For example, in brotherhoods, fraternal organizations, sororities, locutions like the family of man, you try to get people who are not related to use the relationship type that would ordinarily be appropriate to close kin. 
In that case, the consequences are rather severe. 
On the other hand, if you extend the bribe, if the officer is dishonest, you get a huge payoff of going free. 
The honest officer can't hold you to it as being a bribe, and therefore, you get the nuisance of the traffic ticket. 
Because I get to talk about one of my favorite critters, which is the Western Grebe. You haven't lived until you've seen these guys do their courtship dance. 
What they said to us at first was, you know, we already do biomimicry. 
And they said, you know what happens is, mineral -- just like at your house -- mineral builds up. 
So if we had some way to stop this scaling -- and so I picked up some shells on the beach. And I asked them, what is scaling? What's inside your pipes? 
And they didn't know that. 
You know, it's a silo, people in silos. They didn't know that the same thing was happening. So one of them thought about it and said, OK, well, if this is just crystallization that happens automatically out of seawater -- self-assembly -- then why aren't shells infinite in size? What stops the scaling? 
How do we redesign the world that we make, the human-made world? 
And there's a lot of cool technologies out there that life has. 
What's the syllabus? 
And thirdly, how does life make things disappear into systems? 
And at the same time, I'm listening to a lot of businesses and finding what their sort of grand challenges are. 
On the lower left there is a picture of mother of pearl forming out of seawater. It's a layered structure that's mineral and then polymer, and it makes it very, very tough. 
Here are two organisms that pull water. 
Pulling water out of Monterey fog and out of the sweaty air in Atlanta, before it gets into a building, are key technologies. 
Green chemistry is replacing our industrial chemistry with nature's recipe book. 
That little guy over there is a tardigrade. 
There is a problem with vaccines around the world not getting to patients. And the reason is that the refrigeration somehow gets broken; what's called the cold chain gets broken. 
They can be put in a glove compartment, OK. 
Chris Anderson: Talk about foreplay, I -- we need to get to 12, but really quickly. 
OK, so that's the healing one. 
And really, that's what other organisms do as well. 
That's the twelfth one. 
And I saw from a young age that having a decent job and earning a good living made the biggest difference for families who were struggling. 
I mean here was a girl who had never lived in peace time who somehow had come to sound like a candidate from The Apprentice. 
My first business was a dressmaking business I started under the Taliban. 
The IMF official is hardly the only person to automatically file women under micro. 
And in many places, they're there. 
Because -- and I say this as somebody who worked in finance -- 500 billion dollars at least has gone into the emerging markets in the past decade. 
Just think of the benefits when it comes to jobs, productivity, employment, child nutrition, maternal mortality, literacy and much, much more. 
And not one country in all the world has eliminated its economic participation gap -- not one. 
The women in my family are not exceptions. 
The women in this room and watching in L.A. 
Together we can make certain that the so-called exceptions begin to rule. 
Once upon a time in 19th century Germany, there was the book. 
Now during this time, the book was the king of storytelling. 
His name was Lothar, Lothar Meggendorfer. 
This man refused to fold to the conventions of normalcy and just decided to fold. 
Whether storytellers realized it or not, they were channeling Meggendorfer's spirit when they moved opera to vaudville, radio news to radio theater, film to film in motion to film in sound, color, 3D, on VHS and on DVD. 
And I really want to build green, but I'm very suspicious of all of these well-meaning articles, people long on moral authority and short on data, telling me how to do these kinds of things. 
Wipe it up, throw it away. 
unless I use a front-loading, high-efficiency washing machine,  and then it looks a little bit better. 
So what this says is that sometimes the things that you least expect -- the position in which you put the handle -- have a bigger effect than any of those other things that you were trying to optimize. 
We wanted to know how much better we could do. 
Now, PVC is a little bit better, but still not as good as the wood that we chose. 
When it comes time to sheetrock, if you use EcoRock it's about a quarter of the embodied energy of standard sheetrock. 
If you put carpeting in your house, it's about a tenth of the embodied energy of the entire house, unless you use concrete or wood for a much lower embodied energy. 
So now we add in the final construction energy, we add it all up, and we've built a house for less than half of the typical embodied energy for building a house like this. 
Now, I probably would have upgraded the old house to be more energy-efficient, and in that case, it would take me more about 20 years to break even. 
So what does this mean? 
You might want to leave now. 
So I did. 
And I'm talking specifically about synanthropic species, which are species that have adapted specifically for human ecologies, species like rats and cockroaches and crows. 
So, for example, rats are incredibly responsive breeders. 
We're seeing a population boom with crows. 
And I'll give you an example of that. 
And these crows use sticks in the wild to get insects and whatnot out of pieces of wood. 
They messed up and left just a stick of wire in there. 
So what's significant about this isn't that crows are using cars to crack nuts. 
And as we heard yesterday, that's the Pandora's box that's getting human beings in trouble, and we're starting to see it with them. 
Now, they're used to the sound of the machine, and they keep coming back, and digging out these peanuts from amongst the pile of coins that's there. 
The main thing, the main point of all this for me is that we can find mutually beneficial systems for these species. 
So my grandfather told me when I was a little girl, If you say a word often enough, it becomes you. 
Anybody out here old enough to know Studs Terkel, that old radio man? 
The gradual slippage -- 'slippage' is the word used by the people in Watergate, moral slippage -- it's a gradual kind of thing, combination of things. 
Oh, let me kind of tell you a funny little play bit. 
Just as a train is about to go, a young couple rush in and they're just about to close the pneumatic doors. 
You see, here's Huck; he's an illiterate kid; he's had no schooling, but there's something in him. 
You know, most actors want to do characters that are likeable -- well, not always, but the notion, especially at a conference like this, I like to inspire people. 
And I still feel as though I've got to get coffee for my male colleagues, even though I've outlived most of them. 
Everything I do is word for word off a tape. 
And it didn't work, didn't work. 
All around her head was just swollen; her head was about two sizes of its own size. 
He says, 'She won't breathe.' I knew immediately that she was dead. 
I didn't even want to accept the fact that she was dead, so I went in and I put a mirror to her mouth -- there was no thing, nothing, coming out of her mouth. 
He said, he said, he said, 'We can't, we can't let nobody find out about this.' He say, 'You've got to help me.' I agree. I agree. 
And so I went to both -- two race riots, one of which was the Los Angeles riot. And this next piece is from that. 
And that trial came back with two cops going to jail and two cops declared innocent. I was at that trial. 
So what she's questioning here, she's taking a chance and questioning what justice is in society. 
We didn't qualify for medical treatment, no food stamp, no GR, no welfare, anything. Many African-Americans who never work got minimum amount of money to survive. 
We didn't get any because we have a car and a house. 
And I wonder if that is really justice for them, to get their rights in that way. 
But after the riot, it's too much difference. 
The other reason that I don't wear shoes is just in case I really feel like I have to cuddle up and get into the feet of somebody, walking really in somebody else's shoes. 
I was in a doctor's office last CAT scan, and there was a Reader's Digest, October 2002. 
I mean, like even when I told my wife that you want to come out here and talk to me, she's like, 'She's just talking; she's just being nice to you. She's not going to do that.' And then you called me up and you said you wanted to come out here and interview me and she went and looked you up on the Internet. 
She said, 'Look who she is. 
Freedom? It would have to be the rodeo. 
I mean, I guess it just be like -- I guess it be like the day my brother died. 
So check it, I'm gonna to catch mockingbirds. 
I'll get some asshole at a watering hole asking what brand the ice is. 
I'll get the last time you lied. 
I'll get a lonely, little sentence with real error in it, Yeah, I guess I could come inside, but only for a minute. 
What does a violin have to do with technology? 
The surface of the Earth is absolutely riddled with holes, and here we are, right in the middle. 
I'm on this 'til the whole thing spreads, with chat rooms and copycats and moms maybe tucking kids into bed singing, Hush, little baby, don't say a word. 
Wow. 
Now most media companies -- television, radio, publishing, games, you name it -- they use very rigid segmentation methods in order to understand their audiences. 
And so the bizarre result of this is that most of our popular culture is actually based on these presumptions about our demographics. 
Now there's something else that we've discovered about social media that's actually quite surprising. 
Well, I actually don't think that's going to be the case. 
This is far too simplistic. 
So you may be asking, well why is it important that I know what entertains people? 
So imagine a media atmosphere that isn't dominated by lame stereotypes about gender and other demographic characteristics. 
Thank you so much. 
And she went to a neurologist who was fascinated. 
And the amazing thing to me is that now you would think this woman would like have excellent oral hygiene. 
I interviewed, when I was working on the book, I interviewed a woman who can think herself to orgasm. 
It was remarkable. It took about one minute. 
And it is a fact that you can trigger spinal reflexes in dead people -- a certain kind of dead person, a beating-heart cadaver. 
Obviously it wouldn't be as much fun for the person. 
You know? You can get cadavers if you work at a university. 
According to 1930s marriage manual author, Theodoor van de Velde, a slight seminal odor can be detected on the breath of a woman within about an hour after sexual intercourse. 
But he wrote in this book, Ideal Marriage -- he said that he could differentiate between the semen of a young man, which he said had a fresh, exhilarating smell, and the semen of mature men, whose semen smelled quote, Remarkably like that of the flowers of the Spanish chestnut. 
And lo and behold, the hiccups went away. 
It was called the upsuck theory. 
This is the 1950s. 
I have an answer for you. I have two answers. 
So now you have an evolutionary excuse. 
Alrighty. There is considerable evidence for upsuck in the animal kingdom -- pigs, for instance. 
And I also said to her, Now these sows. I mean, you may have noticed there, The sow doesn't look to be in the throes of ecstasy. 
This is the ejaculation face of the stump-tailed macaque. 
This is basically a penis camera on a motor. 
And in fact he found that in three quarters of the men the stuff just kind of slopped out. 
And that furthers the isolation that people like John found themselves in. 
But after having lost a beloved teacher in 2006 and a good friend last year to suicide, and sitting last year at TEDActive, I knew that I needed to step out of my silence and past my taboos to talk about an idea worth spreading -- and that is that people who have made the difficult choice to come back to life need more resources and need our help. 
This is the way that most of us were taught to tie our shoes. 
And here's how to tell. 
It will let you down less, and not only that, it looks better. 
Live long and prosper. 
It's called Tidying Up Art and it's, as you can see, it's more or less a picture book. 
I'd like to show them around so we can just, you know --  Actually, I managed to prepare for you some enlarged pictures -- even better. 
And we can see here very clearly, it's a confusion of color. 
The various pictures here of the various elements of the picture -- the whole thing is unstructured. 
Yeah, that's great. 
You can see now, that's a good example: even behaving in an orderly, systematic way can sometimes lead to complete chaos. 
That's a picture by Keith Haring. 
In the end, one has a list with which one then can arrange. 
Tidying up Rene Magritte -- this is really fun. 
Like books, clothes, toothbrush, etc. And it was great. 
But then one morning, I hang the same little sign onto that picture by Vincent van Gogh. 
Here -- that's just my new proposal here for the Union Jack. 
yeah, I think, after you have seen that I have to leave anyway. 
One is hierarchical pores, and the other is a macro-molecular nanoscale porosity in the material. 
Machines are becoming devastatingly capable of things like killing. Right? 
Those machines have no place for empathy. 
which was the basis of the movie Bladerunner. 
Even if you just try to get all of those ideas into your head by watching all those thousand TED videos, it would actually currently take you over 250 hours to do so. 
Each of those TEDTalks has an average length of about 2,300 words. 
Or Living in existential vacuum; it sucks. 
I mean ... 
For example, Dan Pink's talk on motivation, which was pretty good if you haven't seen it: Drop carrot. Drop stick. Bring meaning. 
Even then, unfortunately, it's not possible to summarize each TEDTalk individually. 
I don't know any TEDTalk that contains this. 
I had started out with a thousand TEDTalks and I had 600 six-word summaries for those. 
So I thought, I probably have to take this one step further here and create summaries of the summaries -- and this is exactly what I did. 
So, he's discovering the garden. 
His face, by the way, is fully AI-driven. 
Now we need to have a bit more engagement, and again, what we can do is we can look at the body. 
You stand up, and you skim the stone. 
And we're going to help him with this now. 
But this is going to be an introduction, and this is all about the deep psychology that we're trying to use. 
We're trying to introduce you to what I believe is the most wonderful part, you being able to talk in your natural voice to Milo. 
He's just moved house. He's got no friends. 
They're always getting stressed. 
Milo: I just really miss my old house, that's all. 
But for me, this is a wonderful opportunity where technology, at last, can be connected with, where I am no longer restrained by the finger I hold in my hand -- as far as a computer game's concerned -- or by the blandness of not being noticed if you're watching a film or a book. 
Each of you possesses the most powerful, dangerous and subversive trait that natural selection has ever devised. 
I'm talking about your language, of course, because it allows you to implant a thought from your mind directly into someone else's mind, and they can attempt to do the same to you, without either of you having to perform surgery. 
And just imagine the sense of wonder in a baby when it first discovers that, merely by uttering a sound, it can get objects to move across a room as if by magic, and maybe even into its mouth. 
And this cumulative cultural adaptation, as anthropologists call this accumulation of ideas, is responsible for everything around you in your bustling and teeming everyday lives. 
And this is also true of some remote oceanic islands. 
This remarkable image is not a map of the world. 
He thought, Oh, I can renovate the school. 
She found a job, she scouted for jobs for her classmates and her friends. 
She not only changed her own dynamic, she changed her household, she changed her family, her village. 
And that is that the central moral challenge of this century is gender inequity. 
So some of you may be thinking, Gosh, that's hyperbole. 
And, you know, it happens for several reasons. 
There are three reasons why this is the case. 
When you educate a girl, she tends to have significantly fewer kids. 
It's kind of like the dirty, little secret of poverty, which is that, not only do poor people take in very little income, but also, the income that they take in, they don't spend it very wisely, and unfortunately, most of that spending is done by men. 
The last reason has to do with women being part of the solution, not the problem. 
He was speaking to an audience much like yourselves. 
And that does not even include those that are trafficked within country borders, which is a substantial portion. 
She fought off the hyenas with that stick. 
She's moved out of a vicious cycle and into a virtuous cycle. 
Let me tell you about Saima. 
And then, when she had to transport all of the embroidery goods from the village to the marketplace, she needed someone to help her do the transport, so she hired her husband. 
A few yards away was a failed chicken coop. 
She never broke down. 
So, here's the cause. 
Join the movement. 
You've all seen lots of articles on climate change, and here's yet another New York Times article, just like every other darn one you've seen. 
And we've accomplished close to zip. 
And there are times you might like to do something quick. 
Can you shade some sunlight and effectively compensate for the added CO2, and produce a climate sort of back to what it was originally? 
And the answer seems to be yes. 
It just sunk below the surface. We weren't allowed to speak about it. 
And in fact, he had some ideas to make them go away. 
But let's say you have sunlight hitting some particle and it's unevenly heated. 
So the side facing the sun is warmer; the side away, cooler. 
And so you see a net force away from the sun. 
Because we have no way to agree about where to set the knobs. 
We need a broader debate. 
Let's say that we don't do geo-engineering, we do what we ought to do, which is get serious about cutting emissions. 
But I have a lot of reservations. 
And it's time to begin thinking about it, even if the reason we're thinking about it is to construct arguments for why we shouldn't do it. 
And oddly, the most notable letter of rejection I ever received came from Walt Disney World, a seemingly innocuous site. 
And I wanted to see the center with my own eyes, but what I came away with is a photograph. 
And it's just another place from which to observe, and the understanding that there are no absolute, all-knowing insiders. 
In this context I'll just show you a few. 
This is a cryopreservation unit, and it holds the bodies of the wife and mother of cryonics pioneer Robert Ettinger, who hoped to be awoken one day to extended life in good health, with advancements in science and technology, all for the cost of 35 thousand dollars, for forever. 
And in this I really wanted it to resemble an early still-life painting, so I spent some time with the smells and items. 
And the film was shot on 72 millimeter, government-issue film. 
I investigate photography's ability to blur truth and fiction, and its influence on memory, which can lead to severe, even lethal consequences. 
A victim or eyewitness identifies a suspected perpetrator through law enforcement's use of images. 
But through exposure to composite sketches, Polaroids, mug shots and line-ups, eyewitness testimony can change. 
And he served 10 years of a life sentence. 
Ron Williamson. Ron was convicted of the rape and murder of a barmaid at a club, and served 11 years of a death sentence. 
Ronald Jones served eight years of a death sentence for rape and murder of a 28-year-old woman. 
Some people say this is because we have better diagnosis, and more people are being found out. 
For example, these two show great growth in income, absolutely flat happiness curves. 
My field, the field of psychology, hasn't done a whole lot to help us move forward in understanding human happiness. 
Emotions are short-lived intense responses to challenge and to opportunity. 
And each one of them allows us to click into alternate selves that tune in, turn on, drop out thoughts, perceptions, feelings and memories. 
We've come away from the Freudian gloom, and people are now actively studying this. 
Absent from this list, and absent from any discussions of happiness, are happiness in another's happiness. 
Babies love the taste of sweet and hate the taste of bitter. 
Babies really are born with a lot of innate pleasures. 
It turned out that it wasn't, that it really is a system of motivation, a system of wanting. 
There is a profound need to belong. 
But there are ways in which our evolutionary history can really trip us up. 
So for example we have three systems that underlie reproduction, because it's so important. 
There's attachment, which is oxytocin, and the opiates, which says, This is a long-term bond. 
So a person can be in a long term attachment, become romantically infatuated with someone else, and want to have sex with a third person. 
So if you look at questions like this, life satisfaction, you see life satisfaction going up with each rung of income. 
You see mental distress going up with lower income. 
But the effect is relatively small. 
And sure enough, if you look at the kinds of values that come in, you see wealth, adventure, achievement, pleasure, fun, be respected, before the change, and much more post-materialist values after. 
I had all kinds of rats, mice, hamsters, gerbils, squirrels. 
Growing up in a multicultural environment, we had African students in the house, and I learned about their stories, so different backgrounds, dependency on imported know-how, goods, services, exuberant cultural diversity. 
Princess Diana is announcing on TV that landmines form a structural barrier to any development, which is really true. 
And actually, our product -- what you see here. 
Rats have been used since the '50s last century, in all kinds of experiments. 
Rats have more genetic material allocated to olfaction than any other mammal species. 
So in our common language, Dutch, the name for T.B. 
It gets a click sound and comes for the food reward. 
And by doing so, very fast, we can have like a second-line opinion to see which patients are positive, which are negative. 
Just as an indication, whereas a microscopist can process 40 samples in a day, a rat can process the same amount of samples in seven minutes only. 
But let's stick first to tuberculosis. 
Throughout last year, we've been -- depending on which intervals you take -- we've been consistently increasing case detection rates in five hospitals in Dar es Salaam between 30 and 40 percent. 
And there are simple things like, for instance, we have a small laser in the sniffer hole where the animal has to stick for five seconds. 
Also, to standardize the pellets, the food rewards, and to semi-automate this in order to replicate this on a much larger scale and affect the lives of many more people. 
Here is a first prototype of our camera rat, which is a rat with a rat backpack with a camera that can go under rubble to detect for victims after earthquake and so on. 
Thank you very much. 
So, how do you go about studying the brain? 
Now, one recent discovery that has been made by researchers in Italy, in Parma, by Giacomo Rizzolatti and his colleagues, is a group of neurons called mirror neurons, which are on the front of the brain in the frontal lobes. 
So, here is a neuron that fires when I reach and grab something, but it also fires when I watch Joe reaching and grabbing something. 
It's almost as though it's performing a virtual reality simulation of the other person's action. 
For one thing they must be involved in things like imitation and emulation. 
So, how do you do imitation? Why is imitation important? 
And I claim that what happened was the sudden emergence of a sophisticated mirror neuron system, which allowed you to emulate and imitate other people's actions. 
A human being, a child, can just watch its parent kill another polar bear, and skin it and put the skin on its body, fur on the body, and learn it in one step. What the polar bear took 100,000 years to learn, it can learn in five minutes, maybe 10 minutes. 
It emerges from our understanding of basic neuroscience. 
For the longest time people have regarded science and humanities as being distinct. 
Pollen is a flower's way of making more flowers. 
Here is a scanning electron micrograph of a grain of pollen. 
The little hole in the middle, we'll come to a bit later, but that's for the pollen tube to come out later on. A very tiny tube. 
So, that's 20 micrometers across, that pollen grain there. 
It's also very biologically active, as anyone with hay fever will understand. 
And the reason for that is they've got to chuck out masses and masses of pollen to have any chance of the pollen reaching another plant of the same species. 
Again -- this time, sycamore -- wind-dispersed. 
Cool pollen, though. 
Remember, that thing is just about 30 micrometers across. 
Now, it's much more efficient if you can get insects to do your bidding. 
The pollen has little barbs on it, if we look. 
That tells me that it's actually been fossilized, this pollen. 
Isn't that cool? 
And this is where it gets interesting for forensics. 
So, not only does each type of pollen look different, but each habitat has a different combination of plants. 
This is some pollen embedded in a cotton shirt, similar to the one that I'm wearing now. 
And that is the 40 years that women have advocated. 
We have effective therapies now. 
Why are more and more women dying of ischemic heart disease? 
So in the WISE, 15 years ago, we started out and said, Well wow, there's a couple of key observations and we should probably follow up on that. 
had recently published that when women have heart attacks and die, compared to men who have heart attacks and die -- and again, this is millions of people, happening every day -- women, in their fatty plaque -- and this is their coronary artery, so the main blood supply going into the heart muscle -- women erode, men explode. 
EKG goes pbbrrhh, so the doctors can see this hugely abnormal EKG. 
So what do you think happens to these gals? 
So unlike the CAT scans, X-rays, thalliums, for women whose breast is in the way of looking at the heart, every time we order something that has even a small amount of radiation, we say, Do we really need that test? 
And those little red boxes are deaths. 
One of the things that we say about all of this female physiology -- because again, as much as we're talking about women and heart disease, women do, on average, have better longevity than men -- is that unfolding the secrets of female physiology and understanding that is going to help men and women. 
So we're 35 years behind. 
Women participate. 
Deb Roy: This moment and thousands of other moments special for us were captured in our home because in every room in the house, if you looked up, you'd see a camera and a microphone, and if you looked down, you'd get this bird's-eye view of the room. 
This is my wife and I cooking breakfast in the kitchen, and as we move through space and through time, a very everyday pattern of life in the kitchen. 
In order to convert this opaque, 90,000 hours of video into something that we could start to see, we use motion analysis to pull out, as we move through space and through time, what we call space-time worms. 
No video here, so you can focus on the sound, the acoustics, of a new kind of trajectory: gaga to water. 
This is one of the first results that came out of our study a little over a year ago that really surprised us. 
So it appears that all three primary caregivers -- myself, my wife and our nanny -- were systematically and, I would think, subconsciously restructuring our language to meet him at the birth of a word and bring him gently into more complex language. 
What about the visual context? 
And there's our nanny by the door. 
And what we've done is use the word water to tag that moment, that bit of activity. 
Three of the key people in this project, Philip DeCamp, Rony Kubat and Brandon Roy are pictured here. 
Each of the links that you're seeing rendered here is an actual connection made between something someone said and a piece of content. 
We call this a co-viewing clique, a virtual living room if you will. 
And there are fascinating dynamics at play. 
So this person is a key link in connecting mass media and social media together. 
Come here. 
Oh, boy. 
And primary visual cortex sees just simple geometry, just the simplest of shapes. 
And this is the part of the brain that will recognize what something is. 
You'd be activating the dorsal stream if you did that. 
And it's the part that feels. 
Now we've augmented this and spatialized this information. 
We make meaning by seeing, by an act of visual interrogation. 
This is a time-lapse view of it. 
And this is an emerging set of technologies that use large-screen displays with intelligent calculation in the background to make the invisible visible. 
You can see the three-light transom there with the eyebrow windows -- certainly an architectural antique headed to the landfill. 
Even the lockset is probably worth 200 dollars. 
Then, looking up in the turret, you see there are bulges and pokes and sags and so forth. 
Then, on the can it says, This is the famous Budweiser beer, we know of no other beer, blah, blah, blah. 
This little house here, those branches there are made out of Bois D'arc or Osage Orange, and these pictures will keep scrolling as I talk a little bit. 
That's one of those new chocolate cell phones. 
It only rattles that expected pattern and unity of structural features. 
On the one hand, we have an Apollonian perspective, which is very crisp and premeditated and intellectualized and perfect. 
The Dionysian personality takes the picture and goes ... 
Oops, scratch, dumpster. 
And here's a story: Jim Tulles, one of the guys I trained, I said, Jim, it's time now. 
Jim, now it's time. You're the down, oh. 
Good call, Tulles. From now on, you guys hit this pile first. 
But once in a while you get access to the control room, and then you can kind of mess with the dials. 
How disgusting. 
It's a pretty quick read. 
But as soon as you walk in, I go, Ooh. Spaghetti sauce there. 
I feel that expectation, and so I accommodate it, and I'm living my life according to what you expect me to do. 
Wildebeests don't hang with lions because lions eat wildebeests. 
And so you see this in junior high a lot. 
On the bottom tier we have basic needs -- shelter, clothing, food, water, mating and so forth. 
We can't even afford to eat anything except beans. 
We're in trouble. 
And it raises an existential question, which is, if I'm having this experience of complete connection and full consciousness, why am I not visible in the photograph, and where is this time and place? 
This is a police photo. That's actually my car. 
I'm put on full life support, and I have a massive stroke, and my brain drops into a coma. 
And this is how we began. 
Now you also continue to watch as consciousness evolved to the point that here in India, in Madhya Pradesh, there's one of the two oldest known pieces of rock art found. 
While I was producing in Los Angeles, I never thought about it for a second. 
Here's my brain. 
And this person is particularly interesting. 
The craniomandibular system is critical to that. 
If that sounds like a very, very strange thing to say and rather a bold statement -- How can the jaw affect the entire body? -- let me simply point out to you, if I ask you tomorrow to put one grain of sand between your teeth and go for a nice long walk, how far would you last before you had to remove that grain of sand? 
That tiny misalignment. 
Bear in mind, there are no nerves in the teeth. 
That's why the same between the before and after that this shows, it's hard to see the difference. 
This is an MRI MRA MRV, a volumetric MRI. 
I've brought with me, from Southern California, the FM device. 
And when I came out of my coma, I recognized my family, but I didn't remember my own past. 
And I whispered the good news through my broken jaw, which was wired shut, to my night nurse. 
And during my time in coma, she had been laid to rest in her hometown of Phoenix. 
You know, when I heard Simon's -- please sit down; I just want to talk to him for a second -- when I read his book, I went to LA to meet him. 
The thing that amazed me is the painstaking detail with which he has written every hospital he has been to, every treatment he got, every near-miss he had, and how accidentally he stumbled upon innovations. 
Tell a little bit about what you're wearing on your leg. 
Because the chimpanzee would score half right if I gave them two bananas with Sri Lanka and Turkey. They would be right half of the cases. 
I did also an unethical study of the professors of the Karolinska Institute  -- that hands out the Nobel Prize in Medicine, and they are on par with the chimpanzee there. 
Well, I first discovered that the textbook was Tintin, mainly. 
And what do you mean with Western world? I said. 
And 1962, there was really a group of countries here that was industrialized countries, and they had small families and long lives. 
One dollar, 10 dollars or 100 dollars per day. 
There's a little hump here. But there are people all the way. 
We heard it in other forms. And who are these? 
Where are the different countries? I can show you Africa. 
The problem in the world was the poverty in Asia. And if I now let the world move forward, you will see that while population increase, there are hundreds of millions in Asia getting out of poverty and some others getting into poverty, and this is the pattern we have today. 
I can go here and I can split sub-Saharan Africa into its countries. 
And when it burst, the size of its country bubble is the size of the population. 
Today, we don't have to go to Cuba to find a healthy country in Latin America. 
The richest 20 percent of Ugandans are there. 
And we started to write software which could link the data like this. 
So I first went to Copenhagen because I thought, well, maybe I could become a biochemist, but I discovered biochemistry was very boring. 
But Wilkins, you know, thought DNA was the best bet, and he showed this x-ray photograph. 
And there I met Francis Crick. 
I went there without knowing him. He was 35. I was 23. 
And within a day, we had decided that maybe we could take a shortcut to finding the structure of DNA. 
And the reason for doing so, at the center of this photograph, is Linus Pauling. About six months before, he proposed the alpha helical structure for proteins. And in doing so, he banished the man out on the right, Sir Lawrence Bragg, who was the Cavendish professor. 
This is a photograph several years later, when Bragg had cause to smile. 
And they had the wisdom to say no. So he didn't have it. 
But there was ones in the literature. 
So this was, you know, unexpected from the world's --  -- and so, it was held together by hydrogen bonds between phosphate groups. 
And a month after we got the Pauling manuscript -- I should say I took the manuscript to London, and showed the people. 
Well, we got the answer on the 28th February '53. 
So I changed the locations, and then we found the base pairing, and Francis immediately said the chains run in absolute directions. 
So we saw how genetic information is carried. 
It didn't yield. It didn't give good x-ray photographs. 
It was really, you know, sort of a shitty time. 
Well, at that time -- I should go back. 
And then, they learned how to read the letters for the code. 
There's a chip there, a conventional one. Then there's one made by a photolithography by a company in Madison called NimbleGen, which is way ahead of Affymetrix. 
And we use their technique. 
Which is, all of us have about 10 places in our genome where we've lost a gene or gained another one. 
Actually, it's a really big idea. 
And they were going to spend the rest of their lives, usually, in this iron lung to breathe for them. 
And it happened so fast in the United States, however, that even just last month Jon Stewart said this:  Jon Stewart: Where is polio still active? 
They had come from thousands of miles away. 
It doesn't survive in the environment hardly at all. 
And we've got pretty good vaccines, as I've just showed you. 
So those are the kind of stakes that we're after. 
So it was a massive effort. 
We've had to create one of the largest social movements in history. 
Now giving the polio vaccine is simple. 
Now it took years to build up the infrastructure for polio eradication -- more than 15 years, much longer than it should have -- but once it was built, the results were striking. 
Last year, it was 1,000. 
We should abandon this idea of eradication. 
Let's settle for control -- that's good enough. 
Umar was paralyzed for life. 
As you probably can't see the detail here, but this is his report card, and you'll see, he's got perfect scores. 
But you know I'd love to be able to tell you that Umar is a typical kid with polio these days, but it's not true. 
The new vaccine had twice the impact on these last couple of viruses as the old vaccine had, and we immediately started using this. 
Well, in a couple of months we had to get it out of production. 
And we didn't start with the easy places. 
So this morning at about seven o'clock, I decided that we'd try to drive Chris and the production crew here berserk by downloading all of our data from India again, so that you could see something that's just unfolding today, which proves that the impossible is possible. 
Today marks exactly six months -- and for the first time in history, not a single child has been paralyzed in Uttar Pradesh or Bihar. 
We have the chance to write an entirely new polio-free chapter in human history. 
Beverly Joubert: We are truly passionate about the African wilderness and protecting the African wilderness, and so what we've done is we've focused on iconic cats. 
But one of the things that science really lets us down on is that personality, that individual personality that these animals have. 
Well, we needn't have worried. 
And we could only find this by pushing ourselves, by going where no sane person should go -- not without some prompting, by the way, from Beverly -- and just pushing the envelope, going out there, pushing our vehicle, pushing ourselves. 
We don't always get that right, and on this particular day, we seriously underestimated the depth. 
But that's, I think, what this is all about, is that these individuals have these personalities and characters. 
Sleep deprivation is extreme. 
But, for 10 years, we tried to capture lions and elephants together -- and never ever managed until this particular night. 
This elephant, against overwhelming odds, simply gives up hope. 
But by the same token, you can get your hope back again. 
Beverly sits on the one side where all her camera gear is, and I'm on the other side where my space is. 
These are precious to us, these divides. 
But when this little cub saw that I had vacated my seat and climbed to the back to get some camera gear, she came in like a curious cat to come and investigate. 
And of course, we knew now that she was going to survive. 
It was absolutely amazing when she picked it up to safety, protecting it from the hyena. 
But I have to tell you -- everybody always asks, What happened to the baby baboon? 
We had to deal with these individual personalities. 
There's an immense amount of poaching as well, and so possibly the same amount. 
Richard Feynman compared the accuracy of quantum theories -- experimental predictions -- to specifying the width of North America to within one hair's breadth of accuracy. 
And the familiar illustration is the nucleus of an atom is a fly in the middle of a sports stadium and the next atom is in the next sports stadium. 
As an evolutionary biologist, I'd say this: our brains have evolved to help us survive within the orders of magnitude of size and speed which our bodies operate at. We never evolved to navigate in the world of atoms. 
Moving to the other end of the scale, our ancestors never had to navigate through the cosmos at speeds close to the speed of light. If they had, our brains would be much better at understanding Einstein. I want to give the name Middle World to the medium-scaled environment in which we've evolved the ability to take act -- nothing to do with Middle Earth. 
He stared at his wall in Arlington, Virginia, and decided to do it. 
Then, General Stubblebine banged his nose hard on the wall of his office. Stubblebine, who commanded 16,000 soldiers, was confounded by his continual failure to walk through the wall. 
I have every reason to think it's true; I was reading Playboy because I, myself, had an article in it.  
And that's because in Middle World, air friction is always there. 
We have this tendency to think that only solid, material things are really things at all. Waves of electromagnetic fluctuation in a vacuum seem unreal. 
Steve Grand points out that you and I are, ourselves, more like a wave than a permanent thing. 
After all, you really were there at the time, weren't you? 
Not a single atom that is in your body today was there when that event took place. Matter flows from place to place and momentarily comes together to be you. 
So really isn't a word that we should use with simple confidence. 
The fact that the bat uses echoes in pitch darkness to input the current variables to its model, while the swallow uses light, is incidental. 
Haldane guesses that a dog would probably be able to place the acids in the order of their molecular weights by their smells, just as a man could place a number of piano wires in the order of their lengths by means of their notes. 
We're blind to all frequencies outside that, unless we use instruments to help us. 
One way to think about that is by counting planets. 
In short, when we're thinking like academics, we regard people as elaborate and complicated machines, like computers or cars, but when we revert to being human we behave more like Basil Fawlty, who, we remember, thrashed his car to teach it a lesson when it wouldn't start on gourmet night.  
Personification and the imputing of intentional purpose is such a brilliantly successful way to model humans, it's hardly surprising the same modeling software often seizes control when we're trying to think about entities for which it's not appropriate, like Basil Fawlty with his car or like millions of deluded people with the universe as a whole.  
And so this basically led me to a subject called cymatics. 
Now, cymatics is the process of visualizing sound by basically vibrating a medium such as sand or water, as you can see there. 
So, what excites me about cymatics? 
It's like a looking glass into a hidden world. 
We can also use cymatics for healing and education. 
This image here is created from a snippet of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony playing through a cymatic device. 
And we can evolve this exploration of the substance of things not seen. Thank you. 
The war in Vietnam was raging, the Civil Rights movement was under way and pictures had a powerful influence on me. 
I believed the photographers and so did millions of other Americans. 
[ 10.3.08 -- The story breaks. ] [ I have been a witness, and these pictures are my testimony. ] [ South Africa ] [ This is happening now. ] [ Cambodia ] [ Swaziland ] [ One person dies every 20 seconds. ] [ Thailand ] [ An ancient disease is taking on a deadly new form. ] [ Siberia ] [ Lesotho ] [ Tuberculosis: the next pandemic? ] [ India ] [ TB is preventable and curable, ] [ but it is mutating due to inadequate treatment. ] [ XDR-TB: ] [ extreme drug resistant tuberculosis. ] [ There is no reliable cure. ] [ Patients often die within weeks of diagnosis. ] [ 49 countries have reported XDR-TB. ] [ XDR-TB is a critical threat to global health. ] [ Extreme outbreak. ] [ Extreme suffering. ] [ Extreme affliction. Extreme loss. Extreme pain. ] [ Extreme pandemic. ] [ Extremely preventable. ] [ XDR-TB. ] [ We can stop this now. ] [ Spread the story. Stop the disease. ] [ Go to XDRTB.org now. ] [ XDRTB.org: we are the treatment. ] [ We are the treatment. ] [ Made possible through the kind support of BD. ] I'm an American, which means, generally, I ignore football unless it involves guys my size or Bruno's size running into each other at extremely high speeds. 
Narrator: A word about Galvao, a very rare kind of bird native to Brazil. 
Now, most of you have figured out that this was a prank, and actually a very, very good one. 
Because what happens on a social network is you interact with the people that you have chosen to interact with. 
And the reason it shouldn't be is that on any day you can go into Trending Topics. 
Now for me, I'm surprised by this, because this wasn't how the internet was supposed to be. 
We're heading to the future of bits, where everything is speedy, it's weightless. 
Here's what I think is going on. 
It includes things like the Internet cables. 
When we stop looking at the infrastructure that makes connection possible, and we look at what actually happens, we start realizing that the world doesn't work quite the same way that we think it does. 
That's down to about 12 to 15 percent. 
Even within Wikipedias, where we're creating their own content online, there's a heavy bias towards the place where a lot of the Wikipedia authors are based, rather than to the rest of the world. 
You probably won't. 
This is a team of bloggers from around the world. 
But the more that I think about it, the more that I think that a few things that we have learned along the way are interesting lessons for how we would rewire if we we wanted to use the web to have a wider world. 
In this case -- the map of the world at night by NASA -- they're dark literally because of lack of electricity. 
I'm also guessing that most of you don't even speak Chinese -- which is sort of sad if you think about it, as it's now the most represented language on the internet. 
They put it online for free. 
My guess is at least one of them has something interesting to say. 
And search is terrific if you know what you're looking for. 
She has to know something about what stories are available. 
I know Amira. 
He knows one world, and he's finding a way to communicate it to another world, both of which he has deep connections to. 
And the house that John Wilkes Booth planned the assassination of Abraham Lincoln is actually also now a Chinese restaurant called Wok 'n Roll, on H Street in Washington. 
The short answer is, actually, they're from Japan. 
The original name in my book was actually called The Long March of General Tso, and he has marched very far indeed, because he is sweet, he is fried, and he is chicken -- all things that Americans love. 
He's retired, deaf and plays a lot of Mahjong. 
But in China, this guy's actually known for war and not chicken. 
I like to say chop suey's the biggest culinary joke that one culture has ever played on another, because chop suey, if you translate into Chinese, means tsap sui, which, if you translate back, means odds and ends. 
Now back then, the Americans were not clamoring to eat Chinese food. 
There is West Indian Chinese food, there's Jamaican Chinese food, there is Middle Eastern Chinese food, there's Mauritian Chinese food. 
This is a dish called Magic Bowl that I discovered. 
They actually did so through a centralized headquarters out of Illinois, right? 
It wasn't that, so they're like, OK, let's look at television, so they looked at an episode of Lost. 
Now, I don't have a TV, which makes me a freak, but very productive, and --  -- and this episode of Lost, I understand, where the overweight guy has a lucky number which was not a lucky number, which was how long they'd been on the island, but they looked, and the numbers did not match. 
This actually is a slip that one of the winners had, because the Tennessee lottery security officials were like, oh, no -- like, this can't be true. 
Yeah. So, I went and started looking. 
It was lunch, it was take-out, it was sit-down, it was buffet, it was three weeks ago, it was three months ago. 
This time, I'm going to talk about mental illness. 
Not only would it lift, but it might never return. 
That always makes hair stand up and people shake a lot. 
So, they went to the police and they said, We know that at the Rome railroad station, there are all these lost souls wandering around, muttering gibberish. Can you bring one of them to us? 
That's not going to do anything terrible to him. 
Well, you know, in the middle '60s, the first antidepressants came out. Tofranil was the first. 
Finally, I would schedule -- all my major surgical cases, I was scheduling them for 12, one o'clock in the afternoon, because I couldn't get out of bed before about 11 o'clock. 
And my colleagues, who had known me since medical school in that place, said, Don't worry, chap. Six weeks, you're back in the operating room. Everything's going to be great. 
You've seen this painting by Edvard Munch, The Scream. Every moment was a scream. 
Well, as in all hospitals, there was a resident assigned to my case. He was 27 years old, and he would meet with me two or three times a week. 
Any of the results along the spectrum, from pretty bad to terrible, terrible, terrible is going to happen. If he does the best he can, he will have no further obsessions, probably no depression, but his affect will be dulled, he will never go back to surgery, he will never be the loving father that he was to his two children, his life will be changed. If he has the usual result, he will end up like 'One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest.' And you know about that, just essentially in a stupor the rest of his life. 
Plugged me into the wires, put me to sleep, gave me the muscle relaxant. 
But, lo and behold, by 16, by 17, there were demonstrable differences in the way I felt. 
It was as though those tightly coiled wires in my head had been disconnected and I could think clearly. 
My children came back to live with us. 
We had two more children after that. 
It's been, as I said, close to 30 years. 
Every once in a while, I get somewhat depressed and a little obsessional. 
And I've always felt guilty about that. 
I hope it happens to none of you, but it will probably happen to a small percentage of you. 
Would you describe that as global citizenship? 
I believe the concept of global citizenship will simply grow out of people talking to each other across continents. 
But people get excited about this idea of global citizenship, but then they get confused a bit again when they start thinking about patriotism, and how to combine these two. 
When you actually look at the motor of the world economy, it cannot move forward unless there is trade between the different countries. 
Well I think we can persuade people that what is necessary for Britain's long-term interests, what is necessary for America's long-term interests, is proper engagement with the rest of the world, and taking the action that is necessary. 
And we have got to realize that if we don't link up with those people who are sensible voices and democratic voices in Africa, to work together for common causes, then the danger of Al Qaeda and related groups making progress in Africa is very big. 
And I wouldn't like anything that is said today to suggest that I am diminishing the importance of the responsibility that each individual leader has for their own country. 
Where was the early warning systems? 
All these things have happened. 
Even if, as a human being, you believe that, you can't say that. You're elected for Britain's interests. 
Since then, the world has moved forward, partly as a result of what happened with the Holocaust, and people's concern about the rights of individuals within territories where they need protection, partly because of what we saw in Rwanda, partly because of what we saw in Bosnia. 
The idea of the responsibility to protect all individuals who are in situations where they are at humanitarian risk is now being established as a principle which governs the world. 
So, while I can't automatically say that Britain will rush to the aid of any citizen of any country, in danger, I can say that Britain is in a position where we're working with other countries so that this idea that you have a responsibility to protect people who are victims of either genocide or humanitarian attack, is something that is accepted by the whole world. 
Yes. And then of course the theory is still that those talks get rent apart by different countries fighting over their own individual interests. 
America has made its first disposition on this with the bill that President Obama should be congratulated for getting through Congress. 
And God shook his head and said, Not this year, not this decade, perhaps not even in your lifetime. 
And Bill Clinton walked away in tears because he had failed to get what he wanted. 
So that's kind of a bold statement. 
And it's technological, so it can do things like microelectronics, and maybe photonics do. 
And the material looks something like this. 
The process of discovery, generally, is inspired by nature. 
They find their way to self-assemble. 
And we can store information that's film with water and protein. 
You can imagine that then maybe you can use a pure protein to guide light, and so we've made optical fibers. 
You can do electronic pieces that fold and wrap. 
You can implant it in the body without needing to retrieve what is implanted. 
And you see there, it gets reintegrated in tissue. 
So you have a clock, you have protein, and now a silk cup like this can be thrown away without guilt --  unlike the polystyrene cups that unfortunately fill our landfills everyday. 
So it allows for the recovery of what we've stored before. 
Some people in the last decade or two have started creating artwork with technology. 
You can learn something from the robot about the community that you're in. 
You guys are looking good out there. 
Data: Here's the first one. 
One of them falls to the ground. 
I can help. 
You've been a great audience. 
There's a lot more to come. 
Then he said, But really, Sarah, you could have worked harder! Can't you see it's really too small? 
Indeed, it's rather small. 
One day, while my father was working on a file for us to obtain French nationality, I happened to see some documents that caught my attention. 
These are real! 
So, his story. My father was born in Argentina. 
This coincided with the time when he threw himself body and soul into chemistry because it was the only consolation for his sadness. 
It was my grandfather who decided they needed false documents. 
But it was he who went to meet a man from the Resistance. 
In those times documents had hard covers, they were filled in by hand, and they stated your job. 
He started inventing all kind of things -- with some materials he invented a centrifuge using a bicycle wheel. 
Time passed, and they thought he had surely forgotten them, at first. 
And then I understood that asking my father so many questions was stirring up a whole past he probably didn't feel like talking about because it was painful. 
In Africa there were countries fighting for their independence: Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Angola. 
There was also Latin America. 
He said no. 
We live on a human-dominated planet, putting unprecedented pressure on the systems on Earth. 
This is a scientific journey on the challenges facing humanity in the global phase of sustainability. 
So I thought I'd bring her with me today on stage, to have her as a witness of a remarkable journey, which humbly reminds us of the period of grace we've had over the past 10,000 years. 
Here, used as a proxy, temperature variability. 
It was a jumpy ride. 80,000 years back in a crisis, we leave Africa, we colonize Australia in another crisis, 60,000 years back, we leave Asia for Europe in another crisis, 40,000 years back, and then we enter the remarkably stable Holocene phase, the only period in the whole history of the planet, that we know of, that can support human development. 
The majority of the planet, aspiring for development, having the right for development, are in large aspiring for an unsustainable lifestyle, a momentous pressure. 
Now, you would have wished the climate pressure to hit a strong planet, a resilient planet, but unfortunately, the third pressure is the ecosystem decline. 
Now, if we have evidence, which we now have, that wetlands, forests, [unclear] monsoon system, the rainforests, behave in this nonlinear way. 
And could we even, thanks to major advancements in Earth systems science, identify the thresholds, the points where we may expect nonlinear change? 
Now this is the Big Bang equivalent then of human development within the safe operating space of the planetary boundaries. 
In the '60s already, through the green revolution and the Haber-Bosch process of fixing nitrogen from the atmosphere -- you know, human's today take out more nitrogen from the atmosphere than the whole biosphere does naturally as a whole. 
There's good news here, for example, from Latin America, where plow-based farming systems of the '50s and '60s led farming basically to a dead-end, with lower and lower yields, degrading the organic matter and fundamental problems at the livelihood levels in Paraguay, Uruguay and a number of countries, Brazil, leading to innovation and entrepreneurship among farmers in partnership with scientists into an agricultural revolution of zero tillage systems combined with mulch farming with locally adapted technologies, which today, for example, in some countries, have led to a tremendous increase in area under mulch, zero till farming which, not only produces more food, but also sequesters carbon. 
It has to basically do this on current land. 
Elinor Ostrom, the latest Nobel laureate of economics, clearly shows empirically across the world that we can govern the commons if we invest in trust, local, action-based partnerships and cross-scale institutional innovations, where local actors, together, can deal with the global commons at a large scale. 
where you give the guaranteed price for investment in renewable energy, but you can subsidize electricity to poor people. 
So, there is scientific evidence. 
I was asked to come here and speak about creation. 
You know, creation is what put that dog in that picture, and creativity is what makes us see a chicken on his hindquarters. 
And another point -- why I'm here -- is that the day I went to pick up the Plexiglas trophy, I rented a tuxedo for the first time in my life, picked the thing -- didn't have any friends. 
Somebody was hitting somebody else with brass knuckles. 
And that's how -- with this money I paid for a ticket to come to the United States in 1983, and that's very -- the basic reason I'm talking to you here today: because I got shot.   
Unfortunately, it has become obsolete because it was designed for Atari platform. 
But I was still, you know -- this is a kitty cloud. 
The Snail. 
And your eye doesn't know which level to read. 
And they would look at it -- Ah, it's a pencil drawing. 
It had a physicality, and you start going deeper and deeper into sort of narrative that goes this way, towards the image. So this is Monkey with Leica. 
And I wanted to deal with other subjects. 
I got some photographs from them. 
And Jackson Pollock also. 
I used the dust at the Whitney Museum to render some pieces of their collection. 
And I picked minimalist pieces because they're about specificity. 
They do a DNA scan of this, they will come up with a great mailing list. 
Also, the reference to Gerhard Richter's use of color charts -- and the idea also entering another realm of representation that's very common to us today, which is the bit map. 
I opt for very simple line drawings -- kind of stupid looking. 
On the other hand, you know, I paid like three dollars, I think -- and I went to a warehouse in Queens to see a version of Othello by an amateur group. 
That's why we pay to go to magic shows and things like that. 
And the information is there twice -- one on each strand -- which is important, because when new cells are formed, these strands come apart, new strands are synthesized with the old ones as templates in an almost perfect process. 
So an interesting question is, what happened when we met? 
So this involves a lot of technical issues in how you extract the DNA, how you convert it to a form you can sequence. 
The same is true if we look at a Chinese individual versus an African, the Neanderthal will match the Chinese individual more often. 
And further back, 800,000 years ago is there a common origin with present day humans. 
But we do find it in Papua New Guinea and in other islands in Melanesia and the Pacific. 
We don't know quite where the borders between these people were, but we know that in Southern Siberia, there were both Neanderthals and Denisovans at least at some time in the past. 
And since we mixed elsewhere, I'm pretty sure that one day, when we will perhaps have a genome of also these earlier forms in Africa, we will find that they have also mixed with early modern humans in Africa. 
And if I were to write a volume, it would be called, Artists Who Have Led My Exhibitions because my work, in understanding art and in understanding culture, has come by following artists, by looking at what artists mean and what they do and who they are. 
My overall project is about art -- specifically, about black artists -- very generally about the way in which art can change the way we think about culture and ourselves. 
What that might mean for cultural movements all over this moment, the me, we seems incredibly prescient totally important. 
To this end, the specific project that has made this possible for me is a series of exhibitions, all titled with an F -- Freestyle, Frequency and Flow -- which have set out to discover and define the young, black artists working in this moment who I feel strongly will continue to work over the next many years. 
It is really in this sense of discovery that I have a new set of questions that I'm asking. 
But, really, it has been what I've discovered about myself and what I can offer in the space of an exhibition, to talk about beauty, to talk about power, to talk about ourselves, and to talk and speak to each other. 
And you put on the T-10 parachute. 
They give 20 minutes -- that's a time warning. 
And that's to boost everybody's confidence, to show that you're not scared. 
Then they give you, Get ready. 
So nice air comes flowing in. 
So then you look around, you're under a canopy and you say, This is good. 
In 30-some years of jumping, I never did one. 
And I realized that, if they had to go into combat, they would do what we had taught them and they would follow leaders. 
So now I do that Tuesday morning jump, but it's not any jump -- that was September 11th, 2001. 
Sort of leadership by humiliation. 
I've got to use video teleconferences, I've got to use chat, I've got to use email, I've got to use phone calls -- I've got to use everything I can, not just for communication, but for leadership. 
And that's a new kind of leadership for me. 
So we had to get complex intelligence together, we had to line up the ability to act. 
In reality, much of the force I led looked exactly like you. 
And so instead of giving orders, you're now building consensus and you're building a sense of shared purpose. 
It also produced something which I call an inversion of expertise, because we had so many changes at the lower levels in technology and tactics and whatnot, that suddenly the things that we grew up doing wasn't what the force was doing anymore. 
And it's a brand new leadership challenge. 
And every morning in the Ranger regiment, every Ranger -- and there are more than 2,000 of them -- says a six-stanza Ranger creed. 
And so the organizational relationship that bonds them is just amazing. 
That was my journey. 
I came to believe that a leader isn't good because they're right; they're good because they're willing to learn and to trust. 
Alex Steffen and I founded Worldchanging in late 2003, and since then we and our growing global team of contributors have documented the ever-expanding variety of solutions that are out there, right now and on the near horizon. 
As Norwegian social scientist Evelin Lindner has observed, Pessimism is a luxury of good times ... 
In difficult times, pessimism is a self-fulfilling, self-inflicted death sentence. 
Community tools, like text messaging, that can tell you when pollen counts are up or smog levels are rising or a natural disaster is unfolding, can give you the information you need to act in a timely fashion. 
The political aspects of mobile phones can't be ignored either, from text message swarms in Korea helping to bring down a government, to the Blairwatch Project in the UK, keeping tabs on politicians who try to avoid the press. 
Now, imagine a similar model for networking environmentalists. 
Imagine a Web portal collecting recordings and evidence of what's happening to the planet: putting news and data at the fingertips of people of all kinds, from activists and researchers to businesspeople and political figures. 
Now, just to be clear, in this talk I'm using the name Earth Witness as part of the scenario, simply as a shorthand, for what this imaginary project could aspire to, not to piggyback on the wonderful work of the Witness organization. 
Earth Witness would show us two worlds: the world we're leaving behind, and the world we're building for generations to come. 
After this, we noticed a couple of interesting things, which you'll see. 
Make yourself understood to the computer. 
And he couldn't travel, so I went over there. 
And all over India, at the end of about two years, children were beginning to Google their homework. 
They said, Yes, we did. 
So I said, For two months, you were looking at stuff you didn't understand? 
It took me three years to publish that. 
I said, No, use the method of the grandmother. 
What is that? Can you do that again? Can you show me some more?' She did that for two months. 
The scores went up to 50, which is what the posh schools of New Delhi, with a trained biotechnology teacher were getting. 
The first group -- the best one -- solved everything in 20 minutes. 
The average score when I'd done it with the computers and the groups was 76 percent. 
Back at Gateshead, a 10-year-old girl gets into the heart of Hinduism in 15 minutes. 
You know, stuff which I don't know anything about. 
This is a SOLE in Newcastle. 
I started writing English questions on the blackboard. 
So you know what's happened? 
Thanks. 
I was too young, unmarried, I had no children, didn't really know Africa, and besides, my French was pitiful. 
So then I went the whole American way, with competitions, team and individual. Completely failed, but over time, the women learnt to sell on their own way. 
So, blue, blue, everything became blue. 
I think Andrew pretty well covered that, so I will move to the third point, which is that markets alone also are not going to solve the problems of poverty. 
Both of them live at the confluence of public health and enterprise, and both of them, because they're manufacturers, create jobs directly, and create incomes indirectly, because they're in the malaria sector, and Africa loses about 13 billion dollars a year because of malaria. 
And it's really time we start thinking more creatively about how they can be fused. 
He was actually living in the Kibera slums when his father called him and told him about Artemisia and the value-add potential. 
Samuel's kids are in private school, and he's starting to help other farmers in the area also go into Artemisia production -- dignity being more important than wealth. 
The next one, many of you know. 
And so, from an enterprise perspective for Africa, and from a public health perspective, these are real successes. 
We can start building local distribution, and actually, it can cost the public sector much less. 
One, that people will pay different prices, but the overwhelming number of people will come forth at one dollar per net and make a decision to buy it. 
But what it takes is a commitment from all of us to essentially refuse trite assumptions, get out of our ideological boxes. 
And we came up with some parameters, because, you know, building a Rube Goldberg machine has limitations, but it also is pretty wide open. 
Okay, so now the start to finish timing has to be perfect. 
Of those 85 takes, only three actually successfully completed their run. 
And the wonderful elation that we had when we finally completed it. 
It think we can do better than this. Hello TEDxUSC. 
Let me start again. 
Where it goes in the future is questioned. So that's the human part. 
And in that 15 percent, the main focus is on human mind, thinking skills, somehow trying to unleash kids from the straightjacket of school, which is putting information and dogma into them, get them so they really think, ask tough questions, argue about serious subjects, don't believe everything that's in the book, think broadly or creative. They can be. 
Here's a giant flying replica of a pterosaur that has no tail. 
This was the full size of the original creature. 
It sends high-resolution video pictures back to the operator. 
Buckminster Fuller said it clearly: there are no passengers on spaceship Earth, only crew. We, the crew, can and must do more with less -- much less. 
It's amazing: just on the puny power of the sun -- by having a super lightweight plane, you're able to get it up there. 
We couldn't bring one here to fly it and show you. 
But there's a lot of technology going. 
Sorry. 
It never makes a mistake. Because if you make a mistake, you don't leave any progeny. 
In concluding, I want to get back to the big picture and I have just two final slides to try and put it in perspective. 
And so I just put robotic and natural cockroaches out there, but you can fill in whatever you want. This is not a forecast. 
Last night we gave it a few too many turns and it tried to bash the roof out also. It's about a gram. 
Thank you.  
And despite their ferocious appearance, Tasmanian devils are actually quite adorable little animals. 
But inevitably, these tumors progress towards being enormous, ulcerating tumors like this one here. 
They were too young to survive without their mother. 
Scientists around the world were intrigued by this cancer, this infectious cancer, that was spreading through the Tasmanian devil population. 
I myself had a tumor removed from my large intestine when I was only 14. 
Paradoxically, once established, natural selection actually favors the continued growth of cancer. 
So cancer could be thought of as a strange, short-lived, self-destructive life form -- an evolutionary dead end. 
In fact, more genetic profiling told us that this tumor in Jonas actually probably first arose from the cells of a female Tasmanian devil -- and Jonas was clearly a male. 
So how come a tumor that arose from the cells of another individual is growing on Jonas' face? 
Well the next breakthrough came from studying hundreds of Tasmanian devil cancers from all around Tasmania. 
They tend to bite each other, often quite ferociously and usually on the face. 
But if this can happen in Tasmanian devils, why hasn't it happened in other animals or even humans? 
Well the answer is, it has. 
She took him to the vet and the vet discovered something quite disgusting. 
So we've seen that this can happen in animals. 
Ad he decided to put this to the test by actually deliberately inoculating people with cancer from somebody else. 
Most of the people that Dr. Southam injected did not go on to develop cancer from the injected cells. 
And I think that this is something that oncologists and epidemiologists should be aware of in the future. 
Why has the record been so poor? 
Because after years of stagnation and decline, the mentality of politics is that it's a zero-sum game. 
The Security Council typically has the responsibility for providing the peacekeepers who build the security. 
It does increase security. 
One is jobs. 
Now, that is difficult. 
So we need to encourage the growth of local firms. 
And it's schizophrenic because in their hearts donors know that's not a realistic agenda, and so what they also do is the total bypass: just fund NGOs. 
It's to split the functions of a monopoly line ministry up into three. 
So they wouldn't be provided thanks to the United States government and some NGO. 
And basically, what I'd like to tell you is that power is changing, and there are two types of changes I want to discuss. 
What we're going to see in the 21st century is Asia gradually returning to being more than half of the world's population and more than half of the world's product. 
It's not just prevailing at war, though war still persists. 
If we try to focus on the reality, then what we need to focus on is what's really happening in terms of China and the United States. 
And that the Chinese won't catch up or pass the Americans until somewhere in the latter part, after 2050, of this century. 
Why does it matter? Who cares? 
The answer is it matters quite a lot. 
So empowering China to deal with its own problems of carbon is good for everybody, and it's not a zero sum, I win, you lose. 
How do we define our national interests so that it's not just zero sum, but positive sum. 
The world has a new mania. 
A mania for learning English. 
T: I don't want to let myself down. 
T: Perfect! S: Perfect! 
S: I want to change my life! 
So is English mania good or bad? 
And now English is becoming the language of problem-solving. 
It's a true feeling. 
Why is this old table in your office? 
And as I grew up, I heard so much knowledge and so many insights and so much wisdom come out around this table, I began to call it the wisdom table. 
And I was so shocked, so stunned, I got up and said, Well, thank you, but what do I do? 
And that question cleared the space. 
This film is called World Peace and Other 4th Grade Achievements. 
And it's a beautiful thing. 
And I saw Miss Ethel J. Banks who wore pearls and high-heels to elementary school every day. 
And I'm not even talking about you behind me, because I've got eyes in the back of my head. 
And really, I feel as though, when I see the film -- I have a gesture she does, like this -- I feel like I am a continuation of her gesture. 
And so this World Peace Game I'd like to tell you about. 
I didn't want to lecture or have just book reading. 
I offer them the job, they can turn it down, and then they choose their own cabinet. 
That's not all. 
I throw them into this complex matrix, and they trust me because we have a deep, rich relationship together. 
There's oil spills, environmental disasters, water rights disputes, breakaway republics, famine, endangered species and global warming. 
I have no chance to make any policy whatsoever once they start playing. 
And because I don't know, they've got to dig up the answer. 
My question to you is, who's in charge of that classroom? 
And we were very upset. 
I could not have designed that in teaching it. 
It'll be more realer if she reads it. 
We have a lot of data, but I think sometimes we go beyond data with the real truth of what's going on. 
And there are three seconds left on the clock. 
I joined Telco, made TATA trucks, pretty close to Pune. 
So I took one year off, and I went to this village science program. 
This square might look very square and prim. 
But give a child a triangle, he can't do a thing to it. 
They always make a triangular roof. 
Now this is people science. 
The insects are eaten by the frogs; the frogs are eaten by the snakes; the snakes are eaten by the eagles. 
And you put a little fan here. 
And this is a hundred-year-old toy. 
I just put this inside this. 
The most expensive thing is the battery inside this. 
This is an old bicycle tube, which gives you a broad rubber band, two safety pins. 
It's the interaction of both these magnets which makes this motor spin. 
There are six layers -- three layers of plastic, aluminum -- which are are sealed together. 
I'm going to keep this outside, to blow out. I'm going to suck in air. 
Well before I go any further, this is something worth sharing. 
If I crank the handle, all the wool goes inside. 
There are 12 million blind children in our country --  who live in a world of darkness. 
When first you see Nehru and Gandhi, this is the Nehru cap -- just half a newspaper. 
And the second night, he would take the same cap and give it another fold. 
And there's a third one over here. 
Firstly, radical increases in resource efficiency. 
And for all three of these, I believe, biomimicry has a lot of the solutions that we're going to need. 
And I'm just going to talk through this animation. 
And just as natural systems tend to increase in diversity and resilience over time, there's a real sense with this project that the number of possibilities just continue increasing. 
And the kind of elements I'm talking about are, firstly, we have a restaurant inside a productive greenhouse, a bit like this one in Amsterdam called De Kas. 
So for instance, when Julius Caesar arrived in North Africa, huge areas of North Africa were covered in cedar and cypress forests. 
The converse is also true. 
The more vegetation we lose, the more that's likely to exacerbate climate change and lead to further desertification. 
The way it does this is it comes out at night, crawls to the top of a sand dune, and because it's got a matte black shell, is able to radiate heat out to the night sky and become slightly cooler than its surroundings. 
And the ingenuity, if you could call it that, goes even further. 
Between them there's a waxy finish which repels water. 
We're working with the guy who invented the Seawater Greenhouse. 
This is a greenhouse designed for arid coastal regions, and the way it works is that you have this whole wall of evaporator grills, and you trickle seawater over that so that wind blows through, it picks up a lot of moisture and is cooled in the process. 
And what they found with the first Seawater Greenhouse that was built was it was producing slightly more freshwater than it needed for the plants inside. 
And when you think about nature, often you think about it as being all about competition. 
You think, What can I add to the system to create more value? 
And it turns out that different things crystallize out at different stages. 
Now we would be able to make use of all that waste brine. 
We could evaporate it to enhance the restorative benefits and capture the salts, transforming an urgent waste problem into a big opportunity. 
Far too much of the talk about the environment uses very negative language. 
And this is an important point. 
There are very few doctors and, quite frankly, these countries do not have the resources that are needed to cope with such epidemics. 
Very simple. 
And knowing that starts to explain a lot of long-standing mysteries in science. 
It also brings up new issues, though, like computational irreducibility. 
You know, in working on this science for many years, I kept wondering, What will be its first killer app? 
Let's start off with something really easy. 
And it should be able to tell us that. 
let's say the revenue of Microsoft. 
Well, even starting from Mathematica, this is still a huge amount of work. 
Well, a crucial idea of Wolfram Alpha is that you can just ask it questions using ordinary human language, which means that we've got to be able to take all those strange utterances that people type into the input field and understand them. 
And I must say that I thought that step might just be plain impossible. 
Right now, if we look at web queries, more than 80 percent of them get handled successfully the first time. 
And when one does that, one really changes the economics of delivering computational things, whether it's on the web or elsewhere. 
I'll show you one example here. 
Something like Rule 30, for example, turns out to be a really good randomness generator. 
So could that be what's going on with our whole universe? 
But in at least a large class of cases, one can think of the universe as being like some kind of network, which, when it gets big enough, behaves like continuous space in much the same way as having lots of molecules can behave like a continuous fluid. 
Actually, I haven't shown these before, but here are a few of the candidate universes that I've looked at. 
Benoit Mandelbrot is in the audience. 
We've questioned the future of capitalism. 
And the idea is a simple, simple idea, which is the fact that the consumer has moved from a state of anxiety to action. 
The consumer is empowered. 
Do you know what this was right here? 
And what you end up seeing is the whole phenomenon of the fact that we are actually stepping forth and basically leveraging future education, future children in our households. 
However, consumers have moved. 
Dentists report molars, you know, people grinding their teeth, coming in and reporting the fact that they've had stress. 
But seriously, what we see happening, and the reason I want to stress that the consumer is not in retreat, is that this is a tremendous opportunity for the consumer who drove us into this recession to lead us right back out. 
We see high-end haggling in fashion today. 
So, from a value and values standpoint, what companies can do is connect in lots of different ways. 
Gore-Tex is all about personal accountability of their management and their employees, to the point where they really kind of shun the idea of bosses. 
The third of the four laws of post-crisis consumerism is about durable living. 
I was fascinated to learn that 30 percent of all homes in America are actually built by owners. 
Let's look at a couple of quick examples. 
You need to harness it. You need to give it meaning. 
This Kogi doesn't exist. It's a moving truck. Right? 
Or you look at Johnson &amp; Johnson's Momversations. 
You see this rising force in sort of total transparency and openness that companies are starting to adopt, all because the consumer is demanding it. 
But, at the same time, this is also a tremendous opportunity. 
So, I decided to investigate. 
So, I'm going to challenge all of you. 
We talk about world peace. 
And I want to thank all of you in the audience for being great husbands, great mothers, friends, daughters, sons. 
That's what I do in life -- telling stories, writing novels -- and today I would like to tell you a few stories about the art of storytelling and also some supernatural creatures called the djinni. 
I was born in Strasbourg, France to Turkish parents. 
In response she said, Yes, praying is effective, but also beware of the power of circles. 
We all do. 
Our friends, neighbors, colleagues, family -- if all the people in our inner circle resemble us, it means we are surrounded with our mirror image. 
Instead, it generated an atmosphere in which each child was seen -- not as an individual on his own, but as the representative of something larger. 
I came to learn that these were the three main stereotypes about my country: politics, cigarettes and the veil. 
I lived in a very vibrant, diverse neighborhood where I wrote several of my novels. 
What I experienced as a child in that school in Madrid is happening in the literary world today. 
Meanwhile, the other leg draws a wide circle, constantly moving. 
We see them as the domain of supernatural creatures like the djinn, who are made of smokeless fire and are the symbol of elusiveness. 
Perhaps that's not the right way to start at all. 
You see there, it's about 620 billion a year. 
R&amp;D in total in the economy, publicly funded, is about 0.6 percent of GDP. 
The first thing I want to say, and this is straight from Wonders of the Solar System, is that our exploration of the solar system and the universe has shown us that it is indescribably beautiful. 
So, tiny moon. 
That's fascinating and beautiful in itself, but we think that the mechanism for powering those fountains requires there to be lakes of liquid water beneath the surface of this moon. 
And what's important about that is that, on our planet, on Earth, wherever we find liquid water, we find life. 
Tremendous and beautiful discovery. 
And they saw strange pictures like this. 
It's called helios -- helios from the Sun. 
That's a Type Ia supernova explosion. 
It sits there about, say, 1.3 times the mass of the Sun. 
I think that's a remarkable demonstration of the power and beauty and universality of the laws of physics, because we understand that process, because we understand the structure of atoms here on Earth. 
And if I blow it up there, you see it. 
But it visited Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus and Neptune. 
You could have made it in the 1890s; you wouldn't have the transistor. 
Let me leave the last words to someone who's rapidly becoming a hero of mine, Humphrey Davy, who did his science at the turn of the 19th century. 
Thank you. 
Streets have names; blocks are just the unnamed spaces in between streets. 
They say, Oh, well that's Block 17 and this is Block 16. 
Just look at Google Maps here. There's Block 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19. 
You say, OK, but walking around the neighborhood, I noticed that the house numbers don't go in order. 
It's a phenomenon on the Internet today called behavioral tracking, and it is very big business. 
Our daughter then joined us at the breakfast table, and I asked her, Is there an emphasis on music literacy in your school? 
I go to work, I check email, I log onto a few more social sites, I blog, I check more news reports, I share some of those news reports, I go look at some videos, pretty typical day -- in this case, actually fairly pedantic -- and at the end of the day, as my day winds down, look at my profile. 
And Id say, Well, Im walking for the environment. 
I called my parents up. 
And so I did. 
Its only 500 miles. 
I had written the University of Montana two years earlier and said I'd like to go to school there. 
But I use that story because they really wanted to help me. 
I had 13 students when I first walked into the class. 
I could see they were looking for the schedule, to see when they could get out. 
They had to take that class with me. 
And on Earth Day, 1990 -- the 20th anniversary of Earth Day -- thats when I began to speak. 
I got on a sailboat and I sailed down to the Caribbean, and walked through all of the islands, and to Venezuela. 
And I got to -- I start saying, Free at last -- thank God Almighty, Im free at last. 
I had no idea I was going to become a U.N. Ambassador. 
I was going to have to change. 
I know I needed to change, because it would be the only way that I could be here today. 
When does learning begin? 
Well today I want to present to you an idea that may be surprising and may even seem implausible, but which is supported by the latest evidence from psychology and biology. 
Now I'm a science reporter. 
I write books and magazine articles. 
The flavors of the food a pregnant woman eats find their way into the amniotic fluid, which is continuously swallowed by the fetus. 
What this means is that fetuses are effectively being taught by their mothers about what is safe and good to eat. 
The pregnant woman's diet and stress level in particular provide important clues to prevailing conditions like a finger lifted to the wind. 
The Hunger Winter, as it came to be known, killed some 10,000 people and weakened thousands more. 
Learning is one of life's most essential activities, and it begins much earlier than we ever imagined. 
You'd still have five billion left in change, and people would ask for the trains to be slowed down. 
Now, years after you remember the strategic question of whether you're flying in a 777 or an Airbus, you remember those words and that experience. 
I mean, it could almost be rather like that scene from the film Airplane. 
I spoke about this before, and a brilliant person got in touch with me and said, Okay, what can you do? 
One of them also being, although logically it's quite a good idea to have a lift with no up and down button in it, if it only serves two floors, it's actually bloody terrifying, okay? 
They said, Can we do an advertising campaign? 
I said, It's really, really easy. 
Now, interesting that no single person does that, or at least can admit to being so anal as to do it. 
Moving over, we come, of course, to consultancy. 
I mean, Tiger surely was actually obeying the Accenture model. 
That's why I call for the Chief Detail Officer. 
But as I was moving away from the traditional classical repertoire and trying to find new ways of musical expression, I realized that with today's technological resources, there's no reason to limit what can be produced at one time from a single string instrument. 
But what actually interests me a lot more is the fact that in the tip of each controller is a relatively high-performing infrared camera. 
And I also was taught, coupled with that, that it was my job -- this classroom full of five and six year-old children -- it was our job, apparently, to help. 
This is what Jesus asked of us. 
That was news to me, and it felt like it was a very important thing to get to participate in. 
And I felt overwhelmed. 
And I didn't know what would happen when I ran out of things to give, especially if the problem was never going away. 
I heard about things that were going wrong in the lives of the poor. 
I started to feel guilty for my own relative wealth, because I wasn't doing more, apparently, to make things better. 
It became a transaction for me, became sort of a trade. 
So I spent three months in Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania interviewing entrepreneurs that had received 100 dollars to start or grow a business. 
I was starting to be friends and get to know their personal stories. 
But there were these beautiful details, even if I talked to 20 goat herders in a row, and some days that's what happened -- these beautiful details of life change that were meaningful to them. 
I never once was asked for a donation, which had kind of been my mode, right. 
We sent it over to Uganda. 
When you lend them money, and they slowly pay you back over time, you have this excuse to have an ongoing dialogue. 
So the mapping of participating in the story, it actually flows with the up and down. 
We make it really, really simple for me as well as anyone else who wants to use the site. 
But the good news is I don't think I need to stand here and convince you to care -- I'm not even going to try. 
And I'm grateful that whenever I do that, guaranteed, I am inspired -- I am inspired by the person I am listening to. 
What is the future of the human race? 
If not, what created the universe? 
First, there were the laws like Maxwell's equations and general relativity that determined the evolution of the universe, given its state over all of space at one time. 
However, this division into laws of evolution and initial conditions depends on time and space being separate and distinct. 
Indeed, it has probably given me more time than most people to pursue the quest for knowledge. 
Professor Hawking, thank you for that answer. 
I'm a geologist by training. But I love that. 
Here we're going to see one backing into a crevice, and watch his tentacles -- he just pulls them in, makes them look just like algae. 
That's an amazing thing. 
and an octopus. Ain't that amazing? Now, Roger spooked him so he took off in a cloud of ink, and when he lands the octopus says, Oh, I've been seen. 
And now he's gone, and so am I. Thank you very much. 
That's the Lucy species, and was found by my research team in December of 2000 in an area called Dikika. 
It's in the northeastern part of Ethiopia. 
You don't just jump into an invitation. 
First entertainment comes evidence from flutes that are 35,000 years old. 
When you get there, this is what you see, and it's the vastness of the place which makes you feel helpless and vulnerable. 
You find elephants, rhinos, monkeys, pigs, etc. 
Again, another one, That's a monkey. That's a pig, etc. 
Here is a close-up of the fossil, after five years of cleaning, preparation and description, which was very long, and I had to expose the bones from the sandstone block I just showed you in the previous slide. 
So then, once you've done that, the next stage is to know what it is. 
You don't see that in chimpanzees, and you don't see this very projecting canine. 
And how old was she when she died? 
That's why we need care from our parents. 
So, by being at the cusp of our evolutionary history, Selam unites us all and gives us a unique account on what makes us human. 
Up to now, the knowledge that we had about our ancestors came essentially from adult individuals because the fossils, the baby fossils, were missing. 
Imagine somebody coming from Mars and his job is to report on the type of people occupying our planet Earth, and you hide all the babies, the children, and he goes back and reports. 
And they were probably not aware of this future legacy, but they did great. 
With an average depth of the oceans of 4,000 meters, in fact, the high seas covers and provides nearly 90 percent of the habitat for life on this Earth. 
It is, in theory, the global commons, belonging to us all. 
So here is a picture of the high seas as seen from above -- that area in the darker blue. 
And of course, if you want people to play by the rules, you still need an effective system of monitoring and enforcement, for as we've discovered, you can trust, but you also need to verify. 
It's also known as the spawning ground for eels from Northern European and Northern American rivers that are now so dwindling in numbers that they've actually stopped showing up in Stockholm, and five showed up in the U.K. just recently. 
It's actually a bay. 
Coming closer to here, the Costa Rica Dome is a recently discovered area -- potentially year-round habitat for blue whales. 
That is, it provides a wonderful example of where you can go with a real regional initiative. 
So what we've been suggesting is that we either need to amend the World Heritage Convention, so that it can adopt and urge universal protection of these World Heritage sites, or we need to change the name and call it Half-the-World Heritage Convention. 
What I find so exciting is that the Census of Marine Life has looked at more than the tagging of pacific predators; it's also looked in the really unexplored mid-water column, where creatures like this flying sea cucumber have been found. 
And the exciting thing is that we do have sufficient information to move ahead to protect some of these significant hope spots, hotspots. 
But not all the vessels have those to date. 
We need to get the new paradigm of precaution and respect. 
So here we are, seven years, 500 interviews later, and I'm gonna tell you what really leads to success and makes TED-sters tick. 
And the first thing I say to them is: OK, well you can't serve yourself; you gotta serve others something of value. 
While that might be a somewhat morbid thought, I think it has some really profound implications that are worth exploring. 
But today we're all creating this incredibly rich digital archive that's going to live in the cloud indefinitely, years after we're gone. 
And what this lets you do is create an online tribute to your loved ones, complete with photos and videos and stories that they can post after you die. 
But what I think comes next is far more interesting. 
Now we're already starting to see some experiments here. 
Taking it a step further, MIT's media lab is working on robots that can interact more like humans. 
It's not that it's not possible to feed, clothe and house us all and have us live decent lives. 
And that's what will happen to us. 
I accept where we are. 
The future is inherently uncertain. 
Imagine our highly-tuned, just-in-time food industry and our highly-stressed agricultural system failing and supermarket shelves emptying. 
If we feel it now and think it through, we will realize we have nothing to fear but fear itself. 
We can do this. 
I know the free market fundamentalists will tell you that more growth, more stuff and nine billion people going shopping is the best we can do. 
We have achieved remarkable things since working out how to grow food some 10,000 years ago. 
We've built a powerful foundation of science, knowledge and technology -- more than enough to build a society where nine billion people can lead decent, meaningful and satisfying lives. 
We can choose this moment of crisis to ask and answer the big questions of society's evolution -- like, what do we want to be when we grow up, when we move past this bumbling adolescence where we think there are no limits and suffer delusions of immortality? 
We can choose life over fear. 
And one more thing: Archie was suffering from this illness himself. 
So the situation seemed pretty desperate. 
He gives half of them vitamin B12. 
So Cochrane then goes to the Germans who are running the prison camp. 
And he can't understand how this barbarism can be tolerated, and he vents his frustrations. 
So the symptoms of the complex are, no matter how complicated the problem, you have an absolutely overwhelming belief that you are infallibly right in your solution. 
You could count them in five minutes. 
What is evolution? 
How do you do it? 
It falls to the floor. 
You make lots of money. 
Ten percent of Americans don't disappear every year. 
I sometimes wonder. 
Now I've been sort of banging on about this for the last couple of months, and people sometimes say to me, Well Tim, it's kind of obvious. 
And there's an authority figure in the corner behind the teacher's desk who knows all the answers. 
When schools stop doing that all the time, I will admit that, yes, it's obvious that trial and error is a good thing. 
Until then, until then I'm going to keep banging on about trial and error and why we should abandon the God complex. 
They had the God complex in spades. 
And after the trial had been running for a little while, he gathered together all his colleagues around his table, and he said, Well, gentlemen, we have some preliminary results. 
Shut it down at once. 
Tumbleweed rolls through the meeting room. 
It isn't easy. 
So shortly after the war, this young man, Yutaka Taniyama, developed this amazing conjecture called the Taniyama-Shimura Conjecture. 
In fact, it turns out it's equivalent to proving Fermat's Last Theorem. 
You prove one, you prove the other. 
And the problem with leverage is it makes the U.S. financial system look like this. 
That means every bad loan goes bad 47 times over. 
And as you think about that, you've got to wonder: so what do banks have in store for you now? 
Except we've been so busy giving away a trillion here, a trillion there, that we've brought that date of reckoning forward to about 2017. 
We're going to start to pay them. 
This guy runs the China Investment Corporation. 
This is an actual bill. 
If you look at the federal budget, this is what it looks like. 
Everything else is mandated. 
That's the short term. That's the flame part. 
Among other things, because startup companies are .02 percent of U.S. GDP investmentm and they're about 17.8 percent of output. 
Twenty-one countries came together. Dozens of teams. 
Two years ago, you saw this creature. 
But then if you lose one of those second set of teeth, they don't regrow, unless, if you're a lawyer. 
So there are now nine women walking around Boston with re-grown bladders, which is much more pleasant than walking around with a whole bunch of plastic bags for the rest of your life. 
If you don't have a flat world, that's not good, which is why the robot's we're designing today are a little different. 
And this stuff is moving very quickly, and by the way, that thing can carry about 350 pounds of weight. 
And about two or three years after they can hear as well as you and I can, they'll be able to hear maybe how bats sing, or how whales talk, or how dogs talk, and other types of tonal scales. 
This is a group in Germany that's beginning to engineer eyes so that people who are blind can begin to see light and dark. 
Very primitive. 
They'll do stuff you and I can't do. 
And it's the 150th anniversary of the publication of The Origin of Species. 
Maybe not. 
Once upon a time, there was a dread disease that afflicted children. 
And so, as a consequence, a few years later, another scientist -- perhaps maybe this scientist not quite as brilliant as the one who had preceded him, but building on the invention of the first one -- came up with a second cure. 
And the beauty of the second cure for this disease was that it could be used on infants and one-year-olds. 
And the government, they heard her story and the other people, and they said, Yeah, you're right, we should make a law. 
We would lose all of our market. 
So, many times when you try to do research on data, it records complicated stories -- it's hard to find in the data. 
And then finally, the last set of bars, which are really controlling for everything you could possibly imagine about the crash, 50, 75, 100 different characteristics of the crash. 
And the other thing you might argue is, Well, car seats have got a lot better over time. 
So they just have these bench seats, and they strap the car seat and the seatbelt onto it. 
Anyway, it turns out that those two crashes, that actually the three-year-old did slightly worse. So, he gets about a 500 out of -- you know, on this range -- relative to a 400 and something. 
And this seatbelt would have passed with flying colors into being approved as a car seat. 
It's in 5,000 days, all this stuff has come. 
There's two million emails per second. 
It's just a huge machine, and it uses five percent of the global electricity on the planet. 
And in some ways, it's sort of back to the kind of old idea of centralized computing. 
And I am suggesting that every bit will be owned by the Web. 
They're going to talk to the machine. 
Now, with RFIDs and other things -- whatever technology it is, it doesn't really matter. The point is that everything will have embedded in it some sensor connecting it to the machine, and so we have, basically, an Internet of things. 
But in fact, what the new economy really is is the marriage of those two, where we embed the information, and the digital nature of things into the material world. 
Attention is the currency. 
And I'm saying, Humans are now going to be the extended senses of the machine, in a certain sense. 
Now, the second thing that I want to talk about was this idea of restructuring, that what the Web is doing is restructuring. 
And what you had to do was -- if you wanted to participate in this, you had to share packets of information. 
It wasn't like a telephone system where you had control of a line: you had to share packets. 
The second stage that we're in now is the idea of linking pages. 
You couldn't deny -- if someone wanted to link to you, you couldn't stop them. You had to participate in this idea of opening up your pages to be linked by anybody. 
So, the last thing I want to talk about is this idea that we're going to be codependent. 
And what is happening with this is some kind of AI, but it's not the AI in conscious AI, as being an expert, Larry Page told me that that's what they're trying to do, and that's what they're trying to do. 
But it'll anticipate what we're doing, in a good sense. 
And all these devices will be portals into that. 
It was on Jonestown. 
The top picture is a group of Moonies that have been blessed by their messiah. 
And so what is this? How does this work? 
These easy ideas to complex questions are very appealing when you are emotionally vulnerable. 
We're beginning to look inside the brain. 
And so if you looked at my brain, or any brain that's infected with a viral memetic infection like this, and compared it to anyone in this room, or anyone who uses critical thinking on a regular basis, I am convinced it would look very, very different. 
Because I have to say, for my whole career, if there's anything that's been consistent, it's been that you can't do it. 
It's Calvino's idea of the quickest way between two points is the circuitous line, not the straight line. 
We make physical things, buildings that become a part in an accretional process; they make cities. 
And I've had for 30 years an interest in a series of complexities where a series of forces are brought to bear, and to understand the nature of the final result of that, representing the building itself. 
This is a project that we just finished in Penang for a very, very large city project that came directly out of this process, which is the result of the multiplicity of forces that produce it. 
And an image which may be closest talks about the use of light as a medium, that light becomes literally a building material. 
This will be the first building in the United States that took -- well, I can't say it took the air conditioning out. It's a hybrid. 
And I understood that building really could be the augmentation of the Earth's surface, and it completely shifted the notion of building ground in the most basic sense. 
What I'm interested in are how these ideas participate in the educational process of young people. 
One enters the building as it lifts off the ground, and it becomes part of the idea. 
And then the skin -- the edges of this -- all promote the dynamic, the movement of the building as a series of seismic shifts, geologic shifts. Right? 
And finally, one of the most interesting projects -- it's a courthouse. 
Here's a piano nobile, which is a device used in the Renaissance. 
It changed the way our history developed. 
It is made for a diet which is soft, mushy, which is reduced in fibers, which is very easily chewable and digestible. 
Sounds like fast food, doesn't it. 
It's technology. 
So this ingenuity of our ancestors, to invent this most marvelous technology. 
We populated all the ecologies. 
It keeps also your brain working. 
Okay, it's not obvious to be honest. 
Now having a large brain, as you know, is a big advantage, because you can actually influence your environment. 
You know we have up to five tastes, three of them sustain us. 
So we can make mixtures of all this kind of thing because we know that, in cooking, we can transform it to the form. 
So satisfaction was a very important part. 
If you get a stomach ache, if you get a little bit bloated, was not the right food, was not the right cooking manipulation or maybe other things went wrong. 
But what it means to have a brain there is that, not only the big brain has to talk with the food, the food has to talk with the brain, because we have to learn actually how to talk to the brains. 
This is the layer which actually touches the food you are swallowing and you digest, which is actually the lumen. 
What it means is that we have a layered control system. 
So if you override the hunger signal, you can have a disorder, which is called anorexia. 
This is fat digestion. 
Actually, what happens is that a very intricate structure appears. 
You know, culture was born of the imagination, and the imagination -- the imagination as we know it -- came into being when our species descended from our progenitor, Homo erectus, and, infused with consciousness, began a journey that would carry it to every corner of the habitable world. 
And the way Clayton put it was this way. 
I recently sailed on the Hokulea, named after the sacred star of Hawaii, throughout the South Pacific to make a film about the navigators. 
I spent 30 years living amongst the people of Chinchero and I always heard about an event that I always wanted to participate in. 
And then you do the ritual dances that empower the crosses. 
These, of course, are the descendants of the ancient Tairona civilization. 
There are four societies: the Kogi, the Wiwa, the Kankwano and the Arhuacos. 
I traveled with the Arhuacos, and the wonderful thing about this story was that this man, Danilo Villafane -- if we just jump back here for a second. 
We traveled high into the paramo, and as we crested the hills, we realized that the men were interpreting every single bump on the landscape in terms of their own intense religiosity. 
And we ran into a FARC patrol at dawn, so it was quite harrowing. 
They dismiss the rest of us who have ruined the world as the Younger Brothers. They cannot understand why it is that we do what we do to the Earth. 
And when asked that question, they respond with 6,000 different voices. 
They are unique answers to that fundamental question: what does it mean to be human and alive? 
So, you're living through a time when virtually half of humanity's intellectual, social and spiritual legacy is being allowed to slip away. 
This does not have to happen. 
So, I'd like to spend a few minutes with you folks today imagining what our planet might look like in a thousand years. 
This is crazy. 
If you're in Northern Europe or North America, you can use things like buckwheat husks or oat hulls. 
Because the manufacturing process is our organism. 
They're not going to clog up Earth's ecosystems. They work great. 
My brief, as you've just heard, is to tell you about statistics -- and, to be more precise, to tell you some exciting things about statistics. 
Don't tell her I said that. 
She paused and said, He models things. 
The next time, after the 15th toss. 
That's what I want this side to think about. 
Either they're the same, or this one's bigger than this one, or this one's bigger than that one. 
Who thinks that C is true -- that, on average, it'll take less time to see head-tail-head than head-tail-tail? 
The champagne's on ice just next to you; you've got the glasses chilled to celebrate. 
And if it comes down a head, that's great. 
It's the same for the first two parts of the sequence. 
If it's a head you're disappointed, but you're still a third of the way to your pattern again. 
This is my little diversion into my real passion, which is genetics. 
When you toss a coin, you get a sequence of heads and tails. 
And they're an enormously useful tool in modern molecular biology. 
But it turns out that unlocking the secrets in the information generated by modern experimental technologies, a key part of that has to do with fairly sophisticated -- you'll be relieved to know that I do something useful in my day job, rather more sophisticated than the head-tail-head story -- but quite sophisticated computer modelings and mathematical modelings and modern statistical techniques. 
It's not the answer, and it's not because it's only part of the story. 
Here's a little caricature of a million individuals. 
Those of you in Britain will know about what's become rather a celebrated case of a woman called Sally Clark, who had two babies who died suddenly. 
And to argue, then, that the chance of a second death is as if you didn't know that information is really silly. 
One of them is that Sally Clark was innocent -- which is, a priori, overwhelmingly likely -- most mothers don't kill their children. 
So just to conclude -- what are the take-home messages from this? 
We are not good at reasoning with uncertainty. 
All of quality control, which has had a major impact on industrial processing, is underpinned by statistics. 
This is a world-changing invention. 
Well it turns out that the main causes are faulty and misused appliances and electrical wiring. 
Hmmm ... 
So far we've applied for 414 patent claims. 
So, to conclude, intelligent power can, globally, save thousands of lives, prevent tens of thousands of injuries, and eliminate tens of billions of dollars in property damage every single year, while significantly reducing global energy consumption. 
In the spirit of this year's TED Conference, we think this is a powerful, world-changing invention. 
And that's what I'd like to talk to you a little bit about today. 
It's acoustic vibrations in the air, little waves of energy in the air that tickle our eardrum. 
And it's at the hair cell level that they do this. 
In fact, nothing even actually comes close to our ability to restore hearing. 
And as a physician and a surgeon, I can confidently tell my patients that if you had to pick a sense to lose, we are the furthest along medically and surgically with hearing. 
Okay, play that video please. 
I'm saying that they're going to face obstacles that most people who have normal hearing will not have to face. 
Now hearing loss and the treatment for hearing loss has really evolved in the past 200 years. 
I mean literally, they used to do things like stick ear-shaped objects onto your ears and stick funnels in. 
Language is very different. Language is very precise. 
In fact, the whole reason we use it is because it has semantic-specificity. 
But it certainly wasn't the way the music was intended. 
What that suggests is that, even in the case of hearing loss, the capacity for music remains. 
And here's a video of Joseph. 
Joseph: I was born in 1986. 
When I was 12 years old, I was one of the first few people in Singapore who underwent cochlear implantation. 
And this is really unheard of stuff, and this is all because of this technology. 
You don't actually have to hear it. 
I know he doesn't hear well, because I've heard him do Karaoke. 
And so this idea has a lot of traction with us. 
And so, I'm here to tell you, you don't need a computer to actually have a spell. In fact, what you can do at the molecular level is that if you encode information -- you encode a spell or program as molecules -- then physics can actually directly interpret that information and run a program. That's what happens in proteins. 
When this amino acid sequence gets pronounced as atoms, these little letters are sticky for each other. 
So here's a shape. I actually spent about a year in my home, in my underwear, coding, like Linus [Torvalds], in that picture before. 
I mix them together, add a little bit of salt water, and then add this long strand I was telling you about, that I've stolen from a virus. And then what happens is, you heat this whole thing up to about boiling. You cool it down to room temperature, and as you do, what happens is those short strands, they do the following thing: each one of them binds that long strand in one place, and then has a second half that binds that long strand in a distant place, and brings those two parts of the long strand close together so that they stick together. 
You can make a molecule that looks like this, and, you know, he likes to hang out with his buddies, right. 
So that's DNA origami. That's one way. There are many ways of casting molecular spells using DNA. 
I did not choose to take up the pen, the brush, the camera. 
Why did I choose the gun as my instrument? 
My father was a hardworking baker, but when he had finished work in the bakery, he often told me and my brother stories. 
My father was there to provide it. 
He fired. Nothing happened. 
The murder rate in Europe has dropped by a factor of 30 since the Middle Ages. 
Why has violence decreased? 
Or is there something else? 
The armed forces implement the state monopoly on violence. 
My soldiers use the gun as an instrument of peace. 
And that is why -- and in The Netherlands, we are very unique in that -- that is why the Dutch constitution states that one of the main tasks of the armed forces is to uphold and promote the international rule of law. 
And I hope that one day armies can be disbanded and humans will find a way of living together without violence and oppression. 
I hope you will support our soldiers when they are out there, when they come home and when they are injured and need our care. 
You're climbing on little dimples and nubbins in the rock. 
Women are much more in balance because they don't have that idea that they're going to be able to do 100 pull-ups. 
They think about how to get the weight over their feet because it's sort of natural -- they carry you all day long. 
It took us 15 years to sequence HIV -- we sequenced SARS in 31 days. 
If you put different communication technologies on this logarithmic graph, television, radio, telephone were adopted in decades. 
Now by the way, if you look at this on a linear graph, it looks like everything has just happened, but some observer says, Well, Kurzweil just put points on this graph that fall on that straight line. 
And again, it forms the same straight line. You have a little bit of thickening in the line because people do have disagreements, what the key points are, there's differences of opinion when agriculture started, or how long the Cambrian Explosion took. 
It took us three years to double our price performance of computing in 1900, two years in the middle; we're now doubling it every one year. 
Supercomputers -- same thing. 
You would think it would be a very erratic process, and you have a very smooth outcome of this chaotic process. 
As we make them smaller and less expensive, the electrons have less distance to travel. 
And economists have actually started worrying about that. 
This is due to greater productivity, but the economist says, But there's no way you're going to be able to keep up with that. 
These were evolved in very different times -- we'd like to actually change those programs. 
We'd like to actually turn that program off. 
Four or five pharmaceutical companies have noticed this, felt that would be interesting drug for the human market, and that's just one of the 30,000 genes that affect our biochemistry. 
For example, we can inhibit genes now with RNA interference. 
It's now under a 10th of a cent. 
Once we understand its principles of operation, and the pace with which we are reverse-engineering biology is accelerating, we can actually design these things to be thousands of times more capable. 
Where will we get the software? 
Wall Street noticed that this was a revolutionary technology, which it was, but then six months later, when it hadn't revolutionized all business models, they figured, well, that was wrong, and then we had this bust. 
Images will be written directly to our retina, providing full-immersion virtual reality, augmented real reality. We'll be interacting with virtual personalities. 
You can go there with other people, have any kind of experience with anyone involving all of the senses. 
But most importantly, it'll be a tremendous expansion of human intelligence through this direct merger with our technology, which in some sense we're doing already. 
It's just like this one, completely worthless, in which it allegedly worked by electrostatic magnetic ion attraction, which translates to pseudoscientific baloney -- would be the nice word -- in which you string together a bunch of words that sound good, but it does absolutely nothing. 
In this case, at trespass points, allowing people to go through because your little tracker device said they were okay, actually cost lives. 
And in fact, I think my thesis here is that belief is the natural state of things. 
And that's called superstition, and that, I'm afraid, we will always have with us. 
You are a hominid three million years ago walking on the plains of Africa. 
You've been taken out of the gene pool. 
The fish is degraded 20 percent, 50 percent and then the one I showed you, 70 percent. 
And if you give them drugs that are dopamine antagonists, they go away. 
Every time somebody looks at you, you think people are staring at you. 
Because the lights on here. 
So what you see in this particular ambiguous figure is, of course, the dolphins, right? 
That's a dolphin tail there, guys. 
So you recognize Obama immediately. 
And this is also, I think, the basis of conspiracy theories. 
Explains a lot, maybe. 
Well, that's a whole other lecture. 
We know that if you stimulate the temporal lobe, you can produce a feeling of out-of-body experiences, near-death experiences, which you can do by just touching an electrode to the temporal lobe there. 
And you get a sense of out-of-body experience. 
It ties together all this into the power of expectation and the power of belief. 
Okay, now I'm going to ask you to pucker up. 
Pucker up big and lean in just a little bit, okay? 
Jennifer: The man came and started undressing me. 
Woman: They insisted that I was lying. 
Text: Uganda ratified the Convention Against Torture in 1986. 
Torture is defined as any act by which severe pain of suffering, whether physical or mental, is intentionally inflicted by a person acting in an official capacity to obtain information or a confession, to punish, coerce or intimidate. 
And as the story of Mr. Morales, just down the road, excuse me, Mr. Gabriel, would you mind if we delayed your execution a little bit? 
WITNESS. 
There could be a new movement growing up, rising from the ground, reaching for the light, and growing strong, just like a tree. Thank you. 
So in that 18 minutes, or 10 minutes, or five minutes, you have to convey a whole bunch of different characteristics. 
Next up is knowledge. 
You walk in the door. So the first thing you've got to do -- the overall, you know, arc of your presentation -- it's got to start like a rocket. 
And everything has got to be reinforcing this. 
Okay, so how do you do that? 
Well, first of all, logical progression. 
You've also got to let me know that there are touchstones. 
You want to tie in to the rest of the world out there. 
So this all feeds in together. 
You want absolute -- this is the Zen of presentation, right? 
So with that said, we only have a very, very short time. 
You do that, you give me your quick 15-second or 30-second intro, grab my attention. 
We build widgets for the X, Y, Z market. 
If it's a website, show me a screenshot of your website. 
Five is a bit much. Probably four is rational. 
And I look at the logo -- okay, good. 
PowerPoint has this built into every copy of PowerPoint that's shipped. 
And the number one presentation tip: never, ever look at the screen. 
And that is how to pitch to a VC. 
I'm here today to start a revolution. 
Now before you get up in arms, or you break into song, or you pick a favorite color, I want to define what I mean by revolution. 
We're last place in health care, and that's important for a sense of well-being. 
That's social. Let's look at education. 
Because it's shown the way we apply, generate and use knowledge is affected by our social and institutional context, which told us what in communism? 
It's a serious gene. 
True story: I went looking for a school for my kid. 
It can't be because of play. 
Throughout the animal kingdom, for example: ants. Ants play. 
Kittens play. We all know kittens play. 
And it's not just kids, it's adults too. 
These guys are facts. 
The opposite of play is not work. 
Just like there's benefits for humans and animals, there's benefits for play at work. 
You know, the professional athlete that loves skiing, he's serious about it, but he loves it. 
A doctor might be serious, but laughter's still a great medicine. 
You guys have to, and if you're not feeling it, your colleagues, your employees, aren't going to feel it. 
Fear is the enemy of play. 
Let them take long lunches. 
What we need is a players' uprising. 
What we need is a players' uprising. 
What we need is a players' uprising. 
And I am illustrating Still. 
Which, of course, I am not agreeing with because, although I am 94, I am not still working. 
I still have -- or did I use the word still? I didn't mean that. 
These were just some of the things I've made. 
These are tiles. The word, playful is a necessary aspect of our work because, actually, one of our problems is that we have to make, produce, lovely things throughout all of life, and this for me is now 75 years. 
So how can you, without drying up, make things with the same pleasure, as a gift to others, for so long? 
I started as an apprentice to a Hungarian craftsman, and this taught me what the guild system was in Middle Ages. 
We mashed the clay with our feet when it came from the hillside. 
And finally, I had received a document that I had accomplished my apprenticeship successfully, that I had behaved morally, and this document was given to me by the Guild of Roof-Coverers, Rail-Diggers, Oven-Setters, Chimney Sweeps and Potters. 
I also got at the time a workbook which explained my rights and my working conditions, and I still have that workbook. 
My mother thought that this was not very proper, so she sat with us to add propriety to this activity. 
However, the director, the chemist, model maker -- everybody -- concerned himself much more with the art department -- that means, with my work -- than making toilets, so finally they got a letter from the center, from the bank who owned the factory, saying, make toilet-setting behind the art department, and that was my end. 
So I will try speed it up a little  Moderator: Eva, we have about five minutes. 
The accusation was that I had successfully prepared an Attentat on Stalin's life. 
But since I survived and I'm here, and since this is the end of the five minutes, I will -- Moderator: Tell me when your last trip to Russia was. 
Oh, this summer, in fact, the Lomonosov factory was bought by an American company, invited me. 
That's my camera lens. The first one -- the one I shot my Bob Dylan film with 35 years ago. 
I called my sister. I called my neighbors. I said, Come dig. 
That's my sister. She took care of pictures, because I was a big collector of snapshot photography that I believed said a lot. 
She's still there. She's there this morning, actually. 
And we went into parenting expecting our lives to look like this. 
The nurse was coming at me with this beautiful, beautiful child, and I remember, as she was approaching me, the voices of friends saying, The moment they put the baby in your hands, you will feel a sense of love that will come over you that is [on] an order of magnitude more powerful than anything you've ever experienced in your entire life. 
And it was also, of course, surreal. 
You're either in love, or you're not in love. 
I enjoyed being pregnant. I loved it. 
Of those, 67 percent are most lonely when their kids are zero to five -- probably really zero to two. 
In the process of preparing this, we looked at how some other cultures around the world deal with this period of time, because here in the Western world, less than 50 percent of us live near our family members, which I think is part of why this is such a tough period. 
The party line is that every single aspect of my life has just gotten dramatically better ever since I participated in the miracle that is childbirth and family. 
As you get older, you become more stable. 
You start to realize that Hey, I could go to this live music event and have an utterly transforming experience that will cover my entire body with goosebumps, but it's more likely that I'll feel claustrophobic and I won't be able to get a beer. 
So your average happiness goes up, but you lose those transcendent moments. 
But you realize you resubmit yourself to losing control in a really wonderful way, which we think provides a lot of meaning to our lives and is quite gratifying. 
We trade the sort of security and safety of a certain level of contentment for these transcendent moments. 
So where does that leave the two of us as a family with our three little boys in the thick of all this? 
There's another factor in our case. 
And we had reservations about this on the front end. 
Get out of the airplane, it turns out you're trekking in Nepal. 
RG + AV: Thank you. 
We crave to be in the room with the musician the day it was recorded, the day it was played. 
And we go to live concerts, and we get that as much as we can. 
And Yamaha makes an incredible thing called the Disklavier Pro that looks like a nice grand piano there. 
He just got tired of being in front of an audience, and felt like -- a performing monkey was, in fact, his term. 
His maybe most famous recording was something called The Goldberg Variations. 
He wrote some early pieces, but late in his life, in his mature period, he said, Here's a theme -- 30 variations. 
And Gould recorded it in two major recordings that you may know about, one in mono, and one in stereo. 
What I'd like you to hear live is the 1955 version, and we'll play the first couple pieces of it. 
So, in the video world, we've been able to invent, in our lifetimes, natural behavior. 
And when you put on headphones, and you listen to this, you're inside of Glenn Gould's body. 
Your eyes are pretty happy with some color and movement, you know. 
You want to hear it in different rooms and whatever. 
We made a new recording of him playing in the Shrine Auditorium in September. 
And fortunately, it's right in here. 
I want to start just by saying a bit about where I'm coming from. 
I trained briefly as a Buddhist monk under this guy. 
And although that was great for the music business at the time, it wasn't much good for anything else. 
Unprecedented wealth and prosperity, but that growth hasn't always delivered what we needed. 
Rates of depression carried on up, right across the Western world. 
They bring ideas from the margins into the mainstream. 
Ronald Reagan, again, said the two funniest sentences in the English language are, I'm from the government. And I'm here to help. 
And I think more and more people are also asking: Why boost consumption, rather than change what we consume? 
It's not that our scientists are necessarily much smarter than they were a hundred years ago, maybe they are, but they have a hell of a lot more backing than they ever did. 
And he believed we live with others, we share the world with others and therefore our innovation must be done with others too, not doing things at people, for them, and so on. 
Others are much more pragmatic: health coaches, learning mentors, job clubs. 
Now, the idea that all of this represents, I think, is rapidly becoming a common sense and part of how we respond to the crisis, recognizing the need to invest in innovation for social progress as well as technological progress. 
There were big health innovation funds launched earlier this year in this country, as well as a public service innovation lab. 
And if, a generation or two ago, the big challenges were ones like getting a man on the moon, perhaps the challenges we need to set ourselves now are ones like eliminating child malnutrition, stopping trafficking, or one, I think closer to home for America or Europe, why don't we set ourselves the goal of achieving a billion extra years of life for today's citizens. 
Now those are all goals which could be achieved within a decade, but only with radical and systematic experiment, not just with technologies, but also with lifestyles and culture and policies and institutions too. 
History was over and society would inevitably have to take second place to economy. 
Just as today, the enthusiasts of unrestrained capitalism say it's rooted in human nature, only now it's individualism, inquisitiveness, and so on. 
You think I've lost my way, and somebody's going to come on the stage in a minute and guide me gently back to my seat. 
I want to tell you about my friend who was teaching English to adults in Abu Dhabi. 
And one fine day, she decided to take them into the garden to teach them some nature vocabulary. 
A language dies every 14 days. 
That is a little bit too early. 
We were brought to teach English because the government wanted to modernize the country and to empower the citizens through education. 
But if you're not a native speaker, you have to pass a test. 
Do we really want to end up with 600 languages and the main one being English, or Chinese? 
And I want to remind you that the giants upon whose shoulders today's intelligentsia stand did not have to have English, they didn't have to pass an English test. 
Let me tell you a story about two scientists, two English scientists. 
So he invented a cost-free solar lamp. 
When he received his award, he said these lovely words: The children can lead Africa from what it is today, a dark continent, to a light continent. 
I am known best for human-powered flight, but that was just one thing that got me going in the sort of things that I'm working in now. 
And we thought a solar-powered plane wouldn't really make sense, but you could do it and it would get a lot of publicity for solar power and maybe help that field. 
You don't need to dig down for these chemicals, and we can do things much more efficiently. 
So this just summarizes it. Over billions of years, on a unique sphere, chance has painted a thin covering of life -- complex and probable, wonderful and fragile. 
Suddenly, we humans, a recently arrived species, no longer subject to the checks and balances inherent in nature, have grown in population, technology and intelligence to a position of terrible power. We, now, wield the paintbrush. 
Okay, and let's have the next. 
And then also, like it said in the video, you can turn it left or right just by putting the lift under one wing or another. 
And that's it, yeah, just a few inventions. 
Most of the talks that you've heard in the last several fabulous days have been from people who have the characteristic that they have thought about something, they are experts, they know what's going on. 
All of you know about the topic that I'm supposed to talk about. 
Well, it enables you to drink coffee. 
And the other, of course, is a birth control pill, which, in a very simple way, fundamentally changed the structure of society by changing the role of women in it by providing to them the opportunity to make reproductive choices. 
It's like, what is simplicity? 
What is the state of science? 
And, interestingly, complexity is very highly evolved. 
One of the things I want to do is to help you with a very important task -- which you may not know that you have very often -- which is to understand how to sit next to a physicist at a dinner party and have a conversation.  
And the words that I would like you to focus on are complexity and emergence, because these will enable you to start the conversation and then daydream about other things. 
And that's complexity. 
All right, so let me give you an example of simplicity of a particular kind. 
The question is: Why is binary simpler than Arabic? 
And this is a map of bitflows across the continent. 
That is, you can stack them. 
And you put a drop, in this case, of urine at the bottom. 
It turns colors. In this particular case, you're reading kidney function. 
If you take too much out of something that's simple, you lose function. 
So you can't make it too simple. 
And the second is a design issue, and it's not directly relevant, but it's a nice statement. 
So, what I think one can begin to do with this kind of cut at the word simplicity, which doesn't cover Brancusi, it doesn't answer the question of why Mondrian is better or worse or simpler or less simpler than Van Gogh, and certainly doesn't address the question of whether Mozart is simpler than Bach. 
You've got a company set up to ... 
I want to open by quoting Einstein's wonderful statement, just so people will feel at ease that the great scientist of the 20th century also agrees with us, and also calls us to this action. 
I know the next Buddha will come a few thousand years from now, but exists currently in a certain heaven -- that's Maitreya -- so, I'm going to go on a retreat and I'm going to meditate and pray until the Buddha Maitreya reveals himself to me, and gives me a teaching or something to revive the practice of compassion in the world today. 
And the man said, Really? And he showed him a dish full of needles. 
So he said, Okay, I get the point. 
He went back to his cave. He meditated again. 
Another three years, no vision. He leaves again. 
So he thought, I will take the maggots and put them on this piece of flesh, then clean the dog's wounds, and then I'll figure out what to do with the maggots. 
So he starts to do that. He can't grab the maggots. 
He jumps back and there, of course, is the future Buddha Maitreya in a beautiful vision -- rainbow lights, golden, jeweled, a plasma body, an exquisite mystic vision -- that he sees. 
So as he comes up from his first bow he says, My Lord, I'm so happy to see you, but where have you been for 12 years? 
And Maitreya says, I was with you. Who do you think was making needles and making nests and dripping on rocks for you, mister dense? 
Looking for the Buddha in person, he said. 
So, naturally, they chased him out of town. 
You gave me that expression; the eternal mama, you said. That's wonderful. 
So, they first create this foundation of equality. 
And we don't hate anyone, therefore. So we equalize. That's very important. 
And this is the way you do it. You take any being who looks weird to you, and you see how they could be familiar to you. 
You reduce the feeling of otherness about beings. 
And then you connect that with your feeling that everyone has that motherly possibility. 
And they, then, never get any positive feedback. 
Compassion makes you happy. 
The first person who is happy when you get great compassion is yourself, even if you haven't done anything yet for anybody else. 
Because traditional economic theory would say, well, the mountain bike was probably invented by some big bike corporation that had a big R&amp;D lab where they were thinking up new projects, and it came out of there. It didn't come from there. 
The ideas are coming back from the consumers, and they're often ahead of the producers. 
The very first landline telephones, the inventors thought that they would be used for people to listen in to live performances from West End theaters. 
More and more, the inventors of things will not be able to say that in advance. 
The second reason why users are more and more important is that they are the source of big, disruptive innovations. 
Take astronomy as an example, which Yochai has already mentioned. 
What does this mean, then, for our organizational landscape? 
Let me just give you two examples. 
Which venture capitalist in their right mind is going to give you any money to set up a venture competing with Microsoft, with Microsoft Outlook? No one. 
Because the professionals, over here in these closed organizations -- they might be academics; they might be programmers; they might be doctors; they might be journalists -- my former profession -- say, No, no -- you can't trust these people over here. 
They want to, as Jimmy said, they want to have a dialogue, a conversation. 
What should be the role of public policy? 
And I was having dinner with this guy called Timothy Chan. 
Didn't go into the Internet, kept his money, decided to go into computer games. 
At any one time, there are four million people playing one of his games. 
How many people does he employ to service that population? 
Well, how can he service 250 million people from 500 employees? 
Imagine you could take all the children in education in Britain, and one percent of them were co-developers of education. 
Or if you got one percent of the patients in the NHS to, in some sense, be co-producers of health. 
For example, I get people to dress up their vacuum cleaners. 
And I figured I'd put it on the Internet for all employees under stress to help you better deal with what you're going through on your job. 
And so I said, Let's put this together in an album. 
We can build all sorts of environments to make it a little bit easier, but ultimately, what we're trying to do is really connect with one other person. 
Recording: Okay, here's something. 
But sometimes I feel really lonely. 
Like even people in convenience stores saying, Have a nice day, when they're accidentally looking me in the eye. 
And I got a lot, like 30 in a half an hour. 
I was like, I don't know. 
But anyway, this same person, Laura, ended up emailing me a little bit after that project. 
So I asked her, What does it feel like when you feel this way? 
I said, Okay, I'll think about it. 
And when you put them together, something magical happens, something absolutely incredible happens, and all of a sudden I get a chorus from around the world. 
And over the past 35 years, I've studied behavior on the basis of everything from genes through neurotransmitters, dopamine, things like that, all the way through circuit analysis. 
It's really a very precisely timed thing. 
So there is the pattern that every one of them had, but they all were a little different too. 
A key thing is that the major violence genes, it's called the MAO-A gene. 
It's on the X chromosome. And so in this way you can only get it from your mother. 
And what I think might happen in these areas of the world, where we have constant violence, you end up having generations of kids that are seeing all this violence. 
Now I said, Okay, so what? We have Lizzie. 
But it doesn't stop there. 
But there's gonna be bad news somewhere. 
It's the biggest scientific experiment ever attempted. 
So, you might be asking, Why? 
Absolutely everything. 
Actually, if you just look at your thumbnail -- about a square centimeter -- there are something like 60 billion neutrinos per second from the sun, passing through every square centimeter of your body. 
And these particles have been discovered over the last century, pretty much. 
One of the wonderful things, actually, I find, is that we've discovered any of them, when you realize how tiny they are. 
So, one of my most illustrious forebears at Manchester University, Ernest Rutherford, discoverer of the atomic nucleus, once said, All science is either physics or stamp collecting. 
Now, I don't think he meant to insult the rest of science, although he was from New Zealand, so it's possible. 
But imagine someone who's not very popular moves through the room. 
The picture is that the electrons and the quarks in your body and in the universe that we see around us are heavy, in a sense, and massive, because they're surrounded by Higgs particles. 
This is a creation story, I think, equally as wonderful. 
So that's the LHC. 
When I grew up and realized that science fiction was not a good source for superpowers, I decided instead to embark on a journey of real science, to find a more useful truth. 
By measuring their student smiles, researchers were able to predict how fulfilling and long-lasting a subject's marriage will be, how well she would score on standardized tests of well-being and how inspiring she would be to others. 
Outside of this room, more than a third of us smile more than 20 times per day, whereas less than 14 percent of us smile less than five. 
The finding supported Darwin's theory by showing that facial feedback modifies the neural processing of emotional content in the brain in a way that helps us feel better when we smile. 
It is a user-appropriate technology that has been used for humanitarian good to great effect. 
The grassroots has been strengthened through the social power of sharing and they are challenging the old models, the old analog models of control and command. 
If you were to arrive in Nairobi today and pick up a tourist map, Kibera is represented as a lush, green national park devoid of human settlement. 
They're normally backroom or basement hardware service providers, but they need to be elevated to software strategists. 
But if you're like me, my humanity is more like a window. 
Then suddenly I see it, and usually, it's never good. 
My mother was English. 
She was five foot two, very feisty and very English. 
This is how English my mother is -- or was, she just passed. 
And then we went to a fish restaurant, and we had Chad, the surfer dude, serving us, and he came up and my mother said, Do you have any specials, young man? 
And my mother turned to me and said, What language is he speaking? 
But her Igbo wasn't too good. 
So, here are these women, who never discuss their period with their husbands, and here I am telling them, Well, how often do you get your period? 
It was my mother with five little children. 
Can you imagine this five-foot-two woman, standing up to men with guns who want to kill us? 
And she said, You know, you can steel your heart against any kind of trouble, any kind of horror. 
And then the next planting season, when they sang the dirge, they would remove as many names of the dead that equaled as many people that were born. 
Which would seem to suggest that apartheid was entirely the business of men. 
Their humanity never seems to matter very much to us. 
And a lot of rituals involved killing, killing little animals, progressing along, so when I turned 13 -- and, I mean, it made sense, it was an agrarian community, somebody had to kill the animals, there was no Whole Foods you could go and get kangaroo steak at -- so when I turned 13, it was my turn now to kill a goat. 
Now, when I was growing up, he used to tell me stories about how he used to bayonet people, and their intestines would fall out, but they would keep running. 
But he was desperate to show that he'd just come back, so he summoned me up, and he said, Go into the bedroom, my bedroom. 
That's basically how this thing operates. 
So one of the advantages of this design is, when you scale things down, the robot naturally becomes agile. 
It's inversely proportional to R. 
No matter how you throw it, the robot recovers and comes back to him. 
So here are robots carrying beams, columns and assembling cube-like structures. 
So you might want to have multiple robots carry payloads. 
So we use a little trick. 
They sense their neighbors. 
So again the robots monitor this error and calculate the control commands 100 times a second, which then translates to the motor commands 600 times a second. 
As you can see here, they collapse from a three-dimensional formation into planar formation. 
Another application I want to show you -- again, this is in our lab. 
So his algorithm essentially tells these robots how to autonomously build cubic structures from truss-like elements. 
So all these experiments you've seen thus far, all these demonstrations, have been done with the help of motion capture systems. 
It figures out where it is with respect to the features and then estimates its position 100 times a second allowing us to use the control algorithms that I described to you earlier. 
You will see nine robots play six different instruments. 
Let's watch. 
Unless you're on one of these Californian low-carb diets, bread is standard. 
And I think it is because we feel that this kind of bread really is about authenticity. 
And this is about good taste, good traditions. 
But we have, somehow, in the course of the last few centuries, or even decades, started to cultivate an image of a mythical, rural agricultural past. 
So what is happening? 
Bread has migrated to tropical countries, where the middle classes now eat French rolls and hamburgers and where the commuters find bread much more handy to use than rice or cassava. 
This is where it all comes from, and where these farmers who actually, ten thousand years ago, put us on the road of bread. 
Let's go back to traditional farming. 
And I'm making a real plea here. 
We've moved towards large-scale and very high control. 
What I want us to do is to keep up the science and even get more science in there but go to a kind of regional scale -- not just in terms of the scale of the fields, but in terms of the entire food network. 
So what kind of science can we have? 
We cannot solve the world food problem by using biological agriculture. 
Everything is linked together. 
Understand that you are part of this enormous chain of events. 
And as you eat it, and as you try it -- please come and stand up. 
Every meal you eat contains ingredients from all across the world. 
And that, I think, evolutionarily-speaking is unique. 
And today is a time for me to talk to you about water. 
This crocodile, which grows to almost 20 feet long in the northern rivers, and this charismatic snake, the king cobra. 
And it really works to start with them. 
The people of this part of India worship the king cobra. 
It's just a wresting match, but a remarkable activity. 
And now the king cobra is a new one. 
It survived even during the time that the dinosaurs died off. 
In fact, if you see the map, the range of their original habitat was all the way from the Indus in Pakistan to the Irrawaddy in Burma. 
And pretty soon we were seeing sights like this. 
This was actually just taken last year. 
My pals in the Crocodile Specialist Group of the IUCN, the [Madras Crocodile Bank], an NGO, the World Wildlife Fund, the Wildlife Institute of India, State Forest Departments, and the Ministry of Environment, we all work together on stuff. 
So, it seemed that the toxin that was killing the gharial was something in the food chain, something in the fish they were eating. 
But Poolan Devi was one [of them]. Which actually Shekhar Kapur made an incredible movie, The Bandit Queen, which I urge you to see. 
So, who is next? Us? 
We've got a lot of a good team of people working up there. 
So, we can do it. 
And there is a gharial looking at us from the river. 
Namaste. 
I look at it as a creature who is totally frightened of something so dangerous as a human being. 
You were saying that that hasn't been filmed before. 
And the guy who is working there with them, he's from Maharashtra, he said, I think he's after the nusha. 
Whenever he eats the pit viper he gets this little venom rush. 
To me, thats the real natural wonder. 
And the insurance companies found that they began to save almost 30,000 dollars per patient, and Medicare is now in the middle of doing a demonstration project where theyre paying for 1,800 people to go through the program on the sites that we train. 
And Ill talk more about this, but the real epidemic isnt just heart disease or obesity or smoking -- its loneliness and depression. 
And the pain is not the problem: its the symptom. 
What was the biggest selling drug of all time when it was introduced a few years ago? 
So the very behaviors that we think of as being so sexy in our culture are the very ones that leave so many people feeling tired, lethargic, depressed and impotent, and thats not much fun. 
Your sexual function improves. 
When you eat a big fatty meal, how do you feel? 
You feel kind of sleepy afterwards. 
These are not election returns; these are the percentage of people who are overweight. 
He says, Ive got some good news. 
What we found was that, after a year, none of the experimental group patients who made these lifestyle changes needed treatment, whereas six of the control-group patients needed surgery or radiation. 
And then I wondered: was there any relationship between how much people changed their diet and lifestyle -- whichever group they were in -- and the changes in PSA? 
The last thing I want to talk about, apropos of the issue of the pursuit of happiness, is that study after study have shown that people who are lonely and depressed -- and depression is the other real epidemic in our culture -- are many times more likely to get sick and die prematurely, in part because, as we talked about, theyre more likely to smoke and overeat and drink too much and work too hard and so on. 
It can be sexual intimacy  I happen to think that healing energy and erotic energy are just different forms of the same thing. 
And at the end of it, somebody said, Hey, Swami, whats the difference between wellness and illness? 
And so he went up on the board and he wrote the word illness, and circled the first letter, and then wrote the word wellness, and circled the first two letters ... 
And along the way they created a breakthrough in computer visualization. 
Hopefully it won't stutter. 
And if we did our jobs well, you won't know that we were even involved. 
some you could see, some you couldn't. 
Now, there's no use of prosthetic makeup or photography of Brad superimposed over another actor's body. 
Now, Fincher is an interesting guy. 
And so David had an interesting take on the film, and he threw a challenge at us. 
We went through a process of elimination and a process of discovery with David, and we ruled out, of course, swapping actors. 
But we used lots of cheats and shortcuts. 
We really felt like we were in a -- kind of a 12-step program. 
And of course, the first step is: admit you've got a problem.  
So we needed a system that would allow Benjamin to do everything a human being can do. 
And we realized that there was a giant chasm between the state of the art of technology in 2004 and where we needed it to be. 
The state of the art at the time was something called marker-based motion capture. 
But we also looked at numbers of other films at the time that were using facial marker tracking, and that's the idea of putting markers on the human face and doing the same process. 
We needed the subtleties of the skin. 
We needed creases and dimples and wrinkles and all of those things. 
So, clearly, we were in a substantially better place for this. 
We measure complexity and fidelity of data in terms of polygonal count. 
This was the breakthrough. 
This is Brad doing one of the Ekman FACS poses. 
We shot him with four HD cameras so we'd get multiple views of him and then David would choose the take of Brad being Benjamin that he thought best matched the footage with the rest of the cast. 
And here you can see the body actor. 
We also had to create an eye system. 
He was very popular. 
There were no animators necessary to come in and interpret behavior or enhance his performance. 
So, as things went through this process, Fincher would always say, It sandblasts the edges off of the performance. 
So it sees a smile as a smile. 
But we ended up calling the entire process and all the technology emotion capture, as opposed to just motion capture. 
Their teeth are basically bashed out with a metal rod. 
And we said, Okay, here is some seed fund. 
The women were just not allowed to come out of the community and work with mainstream society. So, we were able to address that. 
We rescued over 550 dancing bears. 
Now, the end product of that action is up on the board here. 
When I started talking to Richard about what I was going to speak about, I had recently come back from Jordan, where I had an amazing experience with a camel. 
The guys got out, they put the hood up, they started working under the hood, got it going again. About a hundred yards, it broke down. 
And they said, Ah, no problem! We just get out and walk. 
And they said, Yeah, yeah, we'll walk. We'll find some camels. 
So we'll need to be very careful around him. Don't let him get you. 
When they're in rut -- they're similar to seals in the way, like, a seal has to open its nose to breathe. 
They use them to pinpoint sound. 
The desert's extremely windy as well as being very cold. 
But they use their tails a lot, especially in rut. 
But on this particular occasion, it was very, very clear that as horny as Suki was, Jasmine was having none of it. 
So I'm going to show you another film. 
But before I do, I just want to mention that this animal truly is a sort of the SUV of the sand, the ship of the desert. It's so vital to the inhabitants of the areas in which the camel is found -- largely Mongolia and Sahara -- that there are 160 words in Arabic to describe the camel. 
And if this is a creature that was designed by committee, it's certainly been like no committee I've ever been on. 
So here's what Suki would do in search of a mate. 
I'm TED Camel. 
I'm smartly designed. 
A distinguished nose, with nostrils lined to filter out sand and dust, and a groove that catches moisture. 
Leathery chest pads that beat the heat. 
I'm able to lose 40 percent of my weight without dying. 
Humans -- the animal -- are pretty lucky creatures because, by and large, we really don't have to adapt to our environment; we adapt our environment to us. 
But this creature that you've just seen ultimately adapts, and keeps adapting and adapting. 
And the idea was to have me record some of my poems and then they would find animators to animate them. 
Writing is not actually as easy as that for me. 
Poetry just says a few things in different ways. 
Some days I put the people in their places at the table, bend their legs at the knees, if they come with that feature, and fix them into the tiny wooden chairs. 
The name of the author is the first to go, followed obediently by the title, the plot, the heartbreaking conclusion, the entire novel, which suddenly becomes one you have never read, never even heard of. 
It's called The Country. 
And that to me was a bad start to the afterlife, having to witness your own funeral and feel gratified. 
If it has a subject, the subject is adolescence. 
Frankly, who cares if Annie Oakley was a crack shot at 15 or if Maria Callas debuted as Tosca at 17? 
And here comes a second follower. 
Now it's not a lone nut, it's not two nuts -- three is a crowd, and a crowd is news. 
I was listening to all the experts and talking to sort of a board of medical advisers. 
I wrote the book on a treadmill, and it took me about a thousand miles to write the book. 
I also tried to be the safest person I could be, because that's a part of health. 
Now it's a little extreme, I admit. 
But if you think about this, this is actually -- the Freakonomics authors wrote about this -- that more people die on a per mile basis from drunk walking than from drunk driving. 
Without the sex part. 
And I finally have stabilized. 
And I, of course, don't have time to go into all of them. 
It really impairs cognition. 
So without noise reduction technology, our country would not exist. 
And you can almost trick yourself into thinking you're eating Doritos. 
That's my greatest hope. 
What might they find? 
Here's a replica of one such seal. 
We need to decipher the script to answer that question. 
In fact, the script has become a battleground of sorts between three different groups of people. 
If you look at a map of India today, you'll see that most of the languages spoken in North India belong to the Indo-European language family. 
First, there's no Rosetta Stone. 
And furthermore, we don't even know what language they spoke. 
And to make matters even worse, most of the text that we have are extremely short. 
And why was I fascinated? 
And I'd like to describe some of the results that we have found. 
I'll give you a couple of seconds. 
Languages contain patterns. 
Language, on the other hand, has an intermediate level of entropy; it's neither too rigid, nor is it too random. 
Here's a graph that plots the entropies of a whole bunch of sequences. 
We found that the Indus script actually falls within the range of the linguistic scripts. 
Who'd have thought that deciphering could be a dangerous profession? 
So, as the old saying goes, if it looks like a linguistic script and it acts like a linguistic script, then perhaps we may have a linguistic script on our hands. 
So as an example, here's a word. 
Okay. Great. 
So this is just like a crossword puzzle, except that this is the mother of all crossword puzzles because the stakes are so high if you solve it. 
It contains seven vertical strokes followed by this fish-like sign. 
And it turns out that in India there's a long tradition of names being based on horoscopes and star constellations present at the time of birth. 
Similarly, there's another sequence of six stars, and that translates to aru meen, which is the old Dravidian name for the star constellation Pleiades. 
So that was pretty exciting. 
But whilst we have an overwhelmingly vivid visual understanding of space, we have no sense of what space sounds like. 
Now this story doesn't start with vast telescopes or futuristic spacecraft, but a rather more humble technology -- and in fact, the very medium which gave us the telecommunications revolution that we're all part of today: the telephone. 
Thomas Watson spent hours listening to the strange crackles and hisses and chirps and whistles that his accidental antenna detected. 
They turned out to be lightning or sources of electrical power. 
There was a glitch in their soundtrack. 
We do enjoy our misery in a certain way. 
Because our egocentric perception -- from the Buddha's point of view, misperception -- is that all we are is what is inside our skin. 
And everyone here is unfortunately carrying that habitual perception, a little bit, right? 
Like, even when you're having a good time, when is the good time over? 
I think the Dalai Lama should have heard that. I wish he'd been there to hear that. 
Everybody has the wrong idea. They think Buddha was so boring, and they're so surprised when they meet Dalai Lama and he's fairly jolly. 
The human being is almost out of time. 
This is Birhan, who was the Ethiopian girl who launched Live Aid in the 1980s, 15 minutes away from death when she was rescued, and that picture of her being rescued is one that went round the world. 
And what do all these pictures and events have in common? 
What they have in common is what we see unlocks what we cannot see. 
What we see unlocks the invisible ties and bonds of sympathy that bring us together to become a human community. 
Go back 200 years when the slave trade was under pressure from William Wilberforce and all the protesters. 
They won public opinion over a long period of time. 
What could they have done with the pictures that they could have shown if they were able to use the modern means of communication to win peoples hearts and minds? 
I was with Nelson Mandela a year ago, when he was in London. 
I have just been talking to the President of Sierra Leone. 
I met her in a field, she was ragged, she had no shoes. 
We must then build a proper relationship between the richest and the poorest countries based on our desire that they are able to fend for themselves with the investment that is necessary in their agriculture, so that Africa is not a net importer of food, but an exporter of food. 
Making people laugh. 
So please send me your ideas about how to design a foot. 
We have to first know what a foot is. 
And I want you to help me do that in this next clip. 
See any common themes? Principles? 
Now it turns out that animals can go anywhere. 
If you want to study how a foot works, we're going to have to simulate those surfaces, or simulate that debris. 
Without a foot, here's what it does. It doesn't even slow down. 
That's a bipedal octopus that's disguised as a rolling coconut. 
Now, you might have noticed something else about the animals when they were running over the rough terrain. 
Boy: Spiny. 
Do we really understand that principle of tuning? The answer is, yes! 
But look at this animal do it! 
And you probably feel them if you grabbed it. 
These are all from different insects. 
Let's look at that ant. 
You see what happens? 
So to our blueprint, we stick on some sticky pads. 
These are its feet. 
It has a hundred to a thousand split ends, and that's the secret, because it allows intimate contact. 
Here you are, pulling off the Band-Aid. 
Here's the new project: we're trying to create the first climbing search-and-rescue robot -- no suction or magnets -- that can only move on limited kinds of surfaces. 
And here it is coming up at you, in its first steps up a wall. 
And that's exactly what he's done. 
Thank you. 
The first thing that got me interested in the sounds of these underwater animals, whose world was so foreign to me, was evidence from captive dolphins that captive dolphins could imitate human sounds. 
This is a picture of a trainer's whistle, a whistle a trainer will blow to tell a dolphin it's done the right thing and can come get a fish. 
Many mammals have to produce contact calls when, say, a mother and calf are apart. 
What this figure shows is the percentage of the separations in which dolphins whistle, against the maximum distance. 
So when dolphins are separating by less than 20 meters, less than half the time they need to use whistles. 
Most of the time they can just find each other just by swimming around. 
And two boats: When the second boat was added, what happened was that some of the dolphins left the area completely. 
We may need to regulate the intensity of recreational boating and actual whale watching in order to prevent these kinds of problems. 
This is a kind of map we've all been looking at. 
So you're listening to the complicated song produced by humpbacks here. 
And this orange line here marks the typical songs of east coast humpbacks. 
It's loud, clear -- you can hear it very clearly. 
But you can still hear that faint call. 
This is a figure from a textbook on underwater sound. 
Now think about it. This is an amazing thing: That in this frequency range where whales communicate, the main source globally, on our planet, for the noise comes from human ships, thousands of human ships, distant, far away, just all aggregating. 
Same thing in the North Atlantic, in the '50s versus 2000. 
So we have to be very concerned about when the noise in habitats degrades the habitat enough that the animals either have to pay too much to be able to communicate, or are not able to perform critical functions. 
If you actually insulate and isolate the machinery of the ship from the hull, you can reduce that noise by 99 percent. 
What Maersk did is they worked ways to slow down. 
And third, you can create your own tours -- you can share them with friends, you can create them with friends -- and that's the part that I think I'm most excited about because I think that at heart, we are all storytellers. 
Curtis Wong: Thank you, Roy. 
So, Microsoft -- this is a project that -- WorldWide Telescope is dedicated to Jim Gray, who's our colleague, and a lot of his work that he did is really what makes this project possible. 
And so, what you've seen today is less than a fraction of one percent of what is in here, and in the TED Lab, we have a tour that was created by a six-year-old named Benjamin that will knock your socks off.  
Two-thirds of all students in special ed. remedial programs are guys. 
And we're seeing a steady increase among males. 
They're also totally out of sync in romantic relationships, which build gradually and subtly. 
I can create big things out here, but I can go back and really quickly go back to where I started, and make even smaller things here. 
But the neat thing about it is I can add control points. 
I mean, this technique of being able to manipulate a mesh here, with multiple control points, is actually something that's state of the art. 
Don't worry. 
What we don't agree on is what the problem actually is. 
I think none of these is the problem. 
We want to go on with our daily life even though we are not living under normal circumstances. 
In the end, Benjamn and Julin decided the best thing they could do was to organize the community and act together. 
That devotion we feel for the national football team. 
We need men and women who love Mexico and who are willing to take action. 
The battle is won, but we still have to fight it. 
Juggling three balls is simple and normal. 
OK, then you've got to combine them, because then you have the whole spatial palette in front of you. 
And then you get crazy. 
Now, I'm actually going to ask you to try something, so you've got to pay attention. Complexity: if you spend enough time doing something, time slows down or your skill increases, so your perceptions change. 
Things slow down as you learn, as you learn, as you learn. 
So, complexity. Now, how many here are jugglers? 
OK, so most of you are going to have a similar reaction to this. 
No, it looks like a mess. It looks like a mess with a guy there, who's got his hands around that mess, OK. 
It's being able to do something that other people can't do or can't understand. 
All right. So, that's one way of doing it, which is five balls down. 
Make it wider. 
Make it narrower. 
Enough of a clue? So, you get the pattern, right? OK. 
Pink. 
So white ball and -- finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger, finger. Pink. 
Finger, finger, finger, pink or finger. 
I don't need music for it. Talking about time in a moment. 
Ahhh. 
So, a moment. 
OK? And then, what I did as a juggler was say, OK, what can I do to make that something that is dependent on something else, another dynamic. 
So, a moment. 
Are we ready to do that? Yes? 
Now, I'm going to show you the beginnings of a piece that is about balance in some ways, and also -- oh, actually, if you're bored, not here, here's one use for it. 
Two Sticks, you can go with it. Thanks. 
It's a combination of that, the beauty of that, the shape, and the stories that were involved in it, as well as the fact that they protected the contents. 
And it's going to change as I go through it. 
I thought it [would] kind of be interesting to think back to that time when Richard got the whole thing started. Thank you very much, Richard; it's been a big, enjoyable part of my life, coming here. 
And so it was great fun in those days, and some of those of you who are in the audience were my clients. 
We'd come in with some prototype underneath a black cloth and we'd put it on the conference table, and we'd pull off the black cloth and everybody would ooh and ah. 
That was a really good time. 
But something's happened in the last 18 years since Richard started TED, and that's that people like us -- I know people in other places have caught onto this for a long time, but for us, we've really just started ... we've kind of climbed Maslow's hierarchy a little bit -- and so we're now focused more and more on human-centered design, human-centeredness in an approach to design. 
And I think you're starting to see that, and it's making our job even more enjoyable. 
And so in order to do that we've been forming internal video-production groups in order to make these kind of experience prototypes that show just what we mean about the man-machine relationship. 
It's kind of like architects who show people in their houses, as opposed to them being empty. 
So you can see what you look like from the back or all the way around, as you look. 
This is CBS Sunday Morning that aired about two weeks ago. 
And my favorite feature, which is a flower in a vase that wilts when you leave in disappointment, and then when you come back, it comes up to greet you, happy to see you. 
The dome has an incredible amount of water that washes off of it, as well as wastewater. 
The pavilion's design goal was to be kind of quiet and peaceful. 
It can dive to 500 feet, to where sunlight does not penetrate, and is equipped with powerful lights. 
(Narrator: And this central box connects the whole system together. 
And so by doing that, the woman that you saw in the first thing -- she's a school teacher -- always wanted to send her kids to college and she's going to be able to do it because of these things. 
As in this cryptic sentence I found in The Guardian recently: The marriage suffered a setback in 1965, when the husband was killed by the wife. 
We can't see into the engine room. 
Electrons disappear in a kind of fuzz, and there is only energy. And you can't see energy. 
Not only is she aware of her physical repulsiveness, she turns it to her advantage. 
So he went out and bought a plastic frame to put the photograph in. 
So, one of the interesting things about invisibility is that things that we can't see we also can't understand. 
But we can't read each other's minds. I find that quite astonishing. 
But their main exercise of telepathy is to send out powerful signals to the rest of us that it doesn't exist. 
And this is increasingly peculiar, because about 20 years ago, when they started delving into the genome, they thought it would probably contain around 100,000 genes. 
You can't see these things, but they are very strange. 
Because that's where all the stuff happens  that makes you who you are. 
This is fascinating. You probably know, some of you, that cells are continually renewed. You can see it in skin and this kind of stuff. 
But every cell in your body is replaced at some point. 
Livers and internal organs sort of take a bit longer. A spine takes several years. 
There is so many things that -- Light. 
Five out of the 100 billion galaxies, with the naked eye, and one of them is quite difficult to see unless you've got very good eyesight. 
What the others are here for, I've no idea. 
So we were thinking, well the best way to learn from them is to read all of these millions of books. 
Now the problem is there's an X-axis for that, which is the practical axis. 
This is extremely practical, but not so awesome. 
Now again, we kind of caved in, and we did the very practical approach, which was a bit less awesome. 
We said, well instead of releasing the full text, we're going to release statistics about the books. 
It's four words; we call that a four-gram. 
Well which one should I use? 
As of about six months ago, the state of the art in this field is that you would, for instance, go up to the following psychologist with fabulous hair, and you'd say, Steve, you're an expert on the irregular verbs. 
So if you want to become famous early on, you should be an actor, because then fame starts rising by the end of your 20s -- you're still young, it's really great. 
One mistake you should not do is become a mathematician. 
Here's a simple way to do it. 
So for instance, here -- this suppression index is for 5,000 people picked in English books where there's no known suppression -- it would be like this, basically tightly centered on one. 
What you expect is basically what you observe. 
But much more importantly, the distribution is much wider. 
It's the application of massive-scale data collection analysis to the study of human culture. 
There's various types of frustration. 
This person studies all the arghs, from one through eight A's. 
These all happen to be on our computers, on computers across the world. 
And when that happens, that will transform the way we have to understand our past, our present and human culture. 
One of them is pattern recognition. 
We listen to differences, we discount sounds that remain the same. 
Why did I say that? 
Well there are a lot of reasons for this. 
And the art of conversation is being replaced -- dangerously, I think -- by personal broadcasting. 
And only without conscious listening can these things happen -- a world where we don't listen to each other at all, is a very scary place indeed. 
It's a great exercise for improving the quality of your listening. 
So mundane sounds can be really interesting if you pay attention. 
You can use this in listening, in communication. 
Why is it not taught? It's crazy. 
Thank you for listening to me today. 
So what happened was, when I was young and got out of engineering school at Cornell in '79, I decided -- I went to work for Intel and I was in the computer industry -- and three months into that, I fell in love with something else, and I said, I made the wrong career choice here, and I fell in love with brains. 
We are in the pre-paradigm days, if you want to use Thomas Kuhn. 
And theory has not played a role in any sort of grand way in the neurosciences. 
You're more complicated than your brain. You've got a brain. 
That's always been the case. And so all we can say, well, my neocortex, which is the part of the brain I'm interested in, has 30 billion cells. 
The best minds were stumped -- really, really smart people. 
It just turns out it's really hard to think of things, but once you've thought of them, it's kind of easy to understand it. 
So it was intuitive and obvious. Now what about evolution? 
And I'm going to work you through this in a few slides here, give you an example of what this means. Here's a system. 
And Alan Turing defined the Turing test, which is essentially saying, we'll know if something's intelligent if it behaves identical to a human. 
A behavioral metric of what intelligence is, and this has stuck in our minds for a long period of time. 
You're not aware of this, but your eyes are always moving. 
It's not always true, but in general, there's not a good history of theory in biology. 
Not like computer memory. It's not at all like computer memory. 
You cannot learn or recall anything outside of a sequence. 
If you don't build it, you don't understand it. So, one more slide here. 
The new brain is actually kind of easier than the old brain. 
But ultimately, the world's the limit here. 
I don't know how this is going to turn out. 
They couldn't anticipate cell phones and the Internet and all this kind of stuff. 
I do not think about what I consider to be peace, which is sustainable peace with justice and equality. 
But he's offering 84 billion dollars for the modernizing of nuclear weapons. 
In global terms, it's a little bit of money. 
But it's going to modernize weapons we do not need and will not be gotten rid of in our lifetime, unless we get up off our ... 
I was in Hiroshima a couple of weeks ago, and His Holiness -- we're sitting there in front of thousands of people in the city, and there were about eight of us Nobel laureates. 
We're staring at everybody, waiting our turn to speak, and he leans over to me, and he says, Jody, I'm a Buddhist monk. 
I spoke with Aung Sun Suu Kyi a couple of days ago. 
She said, You know, we have a long road to go to finally get democracy in my country. 
Here's another woman hero of mine. 
She says the airports of the world. 
They call her the Tree Lady, but she's more than the Tree Lady. 
This is Rigoberta Menchu Tum. 
It's not a dirty word. 
It's hard work every single day. 
And then, when she closed the door, Grandma said, No, no, no, no. 
And they also, when they want to travel, they use flying machines that can take them to remote destinations. 
And they want the washing machine. 
So how come [this is] something that everyone uses and they think others will not stop it? What is special with this? 
And over there they don't even use one each. 
What are the trends? If we just prolong the trends, without any real advanced analysis, to 2050, there are two things that can increase the energy use. 
And these 22 units -- still the richest people use most of it. 
They must change behavior in some way. 
They must also start to produce green energy, much more green energy. 
I was like, Okay, that's social skill. 
You go to an elementary school at three in the afternoon and you watch the kids come out, and they're wearing these 80-pound backpacks. 
Another finding is that the unconscious, far from being dumb and sexualized, is actually quite smart. 
And the way you should do that is study the furniture, let it marinate in your mind, distract yourself, and then a few days later, go with your gut, because unconsciously you've figured it out. 
Now I'm a middle-aged guy. 
They put them into a brain scan machine -- this is apocryphal by the way, but I don't care -- and they had them watch a horror movie, and then they had them describe their feelings toward their wives. 
They have trouble relating to other people. 
Ninety-five percent of our professors report that they are above-average teachers. 
They have epistemological modesty. 
They are open-minded in the face of ambiguity. 
The third trait is metis, what we might call street smarts -- it's a Greek word. 
And that comes in tremendously handy, because groups are smarter than individuals. 
What Picasso did, for example, was take the concept Western art and the concept African masks and blend them together -- not only the geometry, but the moral systems entailed in them. 
And these are skills, again, we can't count and measure. 
Just to let you know, I do not have a lexicographical whistle. 
But people think that my job is to let the good words make that difficult left-hand turn into the dictionary, and keep the bad words out. 
And it's not very fun. And when parts of your job are not easy or fun, you kind of look for an excuse not to do them. 
But why do people want me to direct traffic, when I would much rather go fishing? 
Why do I blame the Queen? 
So he's really responsible for a lot of what we consider modern in dictionaries today. 
I mean, I'm a huge geek, I love computers. 
It's steampunk. What we have is an electric velocipede. 
Online dictionaries must be different. 
This is flat. Look how many links there are in the actual entry: two! 
So, it's not that we have good words and bad words. 
Some of my best friends are books. 
How can you say that a sledgehammer is better than a ball-peen hammer? 
So if we're not worrying about directing traffic, if we've transcended paper, if we are worrying less about control and more about description, then we can think of the English language as being this beautiful mobile. 
If only one out of every 10 of those books had a word that's not in the dictionary in it, that would be equivalent to more than two unabridged dictionaries. 
You know, it's pretty to look at for a while, but then it dies. 
We can leave the aesthetic judgments to the writers and the speakers. 
I was 15 when I was gang-raped by eight men. 
But the rest, who succumb into it, go through everyday torture. 
These are men who buy you for an hour, for a day, and use you, throw you. 
And we are silent about them. 
But the extra bonuses that she gets is various infections, sexually transmitted infections, HIV, AIDS, syphilis, gonorrhea, you name it, substance abuse, drugs, everything under the sun. 
And therefore my challenge was to understand how can I get out the power from this pain. 
What has been my challenge? 
My biggest challenge is society. 
It's you and me. 
But it is not nice to bring them to our homes. 
So, I'm just going to grab a chair here. 
I had this company that I'd spent 15 years building. It's called Future; it was a magazine publishing company. 
It had recently gone public and the market said that it was apparently worth two billion dollars, a number I didn't really understand. 
The date was February 2000. 
I mean, it had to. Right? I was in for quite a surprise. 
I watched my own net worth falling by about a million dollars a day, every day, for 18 months. 
Turns out that the research done on that is absolutely mind-blowing. 
It's the total brain experience, we're going to ... 
So, I will. Here's the vision for TED. 
This is a video prototype. 
And they don't react to background sounds. 
And we were quite intrigued with playing with the notion of invisibility. 
Soren enters the room. Pop! He goes invisible. 
So people would walking into the room and they'd almost ignore it, thinking it was some crap laying around. 
So this work is a caricature of an upside-down man. 
Because if that circle weren't there, and the floor was very even, it would start to wander about in the space. 
That's my colleague. He's let it go. 
And if it isn't easily gotten, we'll go ahead and steal it. 
While the carbon dioxide, vast quantities of it, gigatons, goes into the atmosphere where we can't get it back -- yet -- and where it is causing the problems that we're most concerned about. 
They've run out of good sites. 
Babcock &amp; Wilcox that make nuclear reactors, here's an integral fast reactor. 
CO2e emissions are equivalent emissions of all the greenhouse gases and particles that cause warming and converted to CO2. 
We have facilities around there. You also have a buffer zone that's 17 square kilometers. 
And you have the uranium mining that you have to deal with. 
There are two nations, North Korea and Israel, that have nuclear weapons and don't have nuclear power at all. 
There's plenty of solar and wind. 
That's from real data. 
Solving the world's problems can be done, if you really put your mind to it and use clean, renewable energy. 
And in the United States Senate, we need bipartisan support -- only one or two votes are needed -- to move global warming through the Senate, and this room can help. 
The first is: be aware of the propaganda. 
And I'm, you know, very much pro that kind of stuff. 
I campaigned against nuclear weapons in the '80s, and I continue to do so now. 
Because five years from now, it will blow you away what we'll actually have as alternatives to this horrible, disastrous nuclear power. 
Your final pitch, Stewart. 
Okay. So, thank you, Mark. 
It's during our lifetime that we're going to take the Earth, take the people of Earth and transition off, permanently. And that's exciting. 
In fact, I think it is a moral imperative that we open the space frontier. 
You know, it's the first time that we're going to have a chance to have planetary redundancy, a chance to, if you would, back up the biosphere. 
And if you think about space, everything we hold of value on this planet -- metals and minerals and real estate and energy -- is in infinite quantities in space. 
And we knew nothing about going to space. 
We went from having literally put Alan Shepard in suborbital flight to going to the moon in eight years, and the average age of the people that got us there was 26 years old. 
The shuttle is costing a billion dollars a launch. 
As we are going out there and taking on a new frontier, we should be allowed to risk. 
In fact, anyone who says we shouldn't, you know, just needs to be put aside, because, as we go forward, in fact, the greatest discoveries we will ever know is ahead of us. 
And in fact, the large corporations, the governments, can't take the risk. 
We've got an altitude call of 368,000 feet. 
Today, you can go and experience weightless flights. 
Orbital flights -- we can take you to the space station. 
That was filmed inside our airplane, and so, you can now do this. 
Let me talk about the other thing I'm excited about. 
It may or may not happen. But if you put up a prize, the beautiful thing is, you know, it's a very small maintenance fee, and you pay on success. 
My work is -- it's a reflection of myself. 
We all seem to think that, you know, if we look down on the ground, there's nothing there. 
And we use the word nothing. 
I told her I couldn't face it because the way the teacher was treating me, ridiculing me, and using me as an example of failure. 
So I told her. 
And walked off. And I didn't expect that, because I expected one of these ... 
So I'm sitting there thinking. 
So I did. 
But I thought, perhaps the ant won't know, it'll probably move in. 
And then I sat down and all the ants came along. 
It became part of me. 
As you can see, that's a pinhead. 
Now that is called the Huf Haus. 
So I'm thinking, Mr. Huf isn't going to be very happy when I told him his house has gone to another, into the atmosphere somewhere. 
So to cut the story short, I decided that I had to go back and do it. 
So I found some more. And I decided to, sort of, construct it very, very slowly, holding my breath, working between my heartbeat, and making sure everything is leveled. 
I noticed that the house was occupied. 
So basically I'd completed the house. 
So I didn't think he was going to throw Bart off. 
And sometimes they turn into little catapults and things go up in the air. 
But I would never do it to a living fly. 
Even though they get on our nerves, I would never kill an insect because, All creatures great and small -- there is a hymn that says that. 
So I have to be very very careful. 
My work, rough estimate, sometimes five, six to seven weeks; you can't always anticipate. 
As you can see, there's an aphid fly there. 
I remember one time I was doing it, and the window was open. 
And then she looked at me. 
And I cut off a little flake of gold. 
Because I had to put the torch on the top. 
The flag had to be made out of little strands of gold. 
It's almost like doing a surgical operation to get this thing right. 
And that was done with a particle from my shirt. 
My point is here, people have a choice -- just like the Indian lady could wear her sari or the Japanese woman could wear her kimono. 
Which is why I prefer the Richard Wilk analogy of globalizing the local and localizing the global. 
And therefore tradition becomes more important, not less important. 
We're here, we're part of a community, sharing out ideas and discussing them. 
Art becomes a very important part of our national identity. 
We have done extensive research to ensure that Arab and Muslim artists, and Arabs who are not Muslims -- not all Arabs are Muslims, by the way -- but we make sure that they are represented in this new institution. 
For me it was a new discovery. 
Now visual expression is just one form of culture integration. 
In a similar way, we have created the Doha Film Institute. 
Who are you playing? 
The Doha Tribeca Film Festival was held at our new cultural hub, Katara. 
I welcome you on board for us to engage and discuss new ideas of how to bring people together through cultural initiatives and discussions. 
And in a saying of the Koran, which to Muslims is God speaking to humanity, God says to his prophet Muhammad -- whom we believe to be the last of a series of prophets, beginning with Adam, including Noah, including Moses, including Abraham, including Jesus Christ, and ending with Muhammad -- that, We have not sent you, O Muhammad, except as a 'rahmah,' except as a source of compassion to humanity. 
The esoteric path of Islam is more popularly known as Sufism, or tasawwuf in Arabic. 
The language differs, but the objective is the same. 
And therefore, for us to be human -- in the greatest sense of what it means to be human, in the most joyful sense of what it means to be human -- means that we too have to be proper stewards of the breath of divinity within us, and seek to perfect within ourselves the attribute of being, of being alive, of beingness; the attribute of wisdom, of consciousness, of awareness; and the attribute of being compassionate and loving beings. 
And I believe, personally, that we're on the verge and that, with the presence and help of people like you here, we can bring about the prophecy of Isaiah. 
My story actually began when I was four years old and my family moved to a new neighborhood in our hometown of Savannah, Georgia. 
That's why they were called ape hangers. 
And one afternoon, I got a call from my doctor. 
The next day I came to see him. I was like, Doctor, that was a really good joke. 
I believe my girls will have plenty of opportunities in their lives, I wrote these men. 
Linda, my wife, joked that it was like having six different marriage proposals. 
And on that first day we were in this youth hostel in a castle. 
Will you help be their dad? 
And I got to the end -- he was crying and I was crying -- and then he looked at me, and he said, Yes. 
And as he talked he had that glint in his eye that I first saw back in Holland -- the glint that says, Let's go cow tipping, even though we never did tip the cow, even though no one tips the cow, even though cows don't sleep standing up. 
And then I had a 15-hour surgery in which my surgeon, Dr. John Healey at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in New York, took out my left femur and replaced it with titanium. 
And anybody who came to see me had to cover themselves in a mask and cover all of the extraneous parts of their body. 
When my wife and I had kids, we thought it would be all-hands-on-deck. 
Instead, it was everybody running the other way. 
And there was something incredibly profound about sitting down with my closest friends and telling them what they meant to me. 
Now David is my literary agent. 
So one day near the end of my journey, I said, Come on girls, let's take a walk across the Brooklyn Bridge. 
We set out on crutches. 
And yet, for the four million years humans have been walking upright, the act is essentially unchanged. 
As my physical therapist likes to say, Every step is a tragedy waiting to happen. 
You go slow, you get where you're going, but you get there with this community you built along the way. 
So I stand here today as you see now, walking without crutches or a cane. 
And last week I had my 18-month scans. 
And all the collective minds in this room, I dare say, can never find a solution for scan-xiety. 
I feel that I've fitted in, in many ways, to some of the things that I've heard. 
They're fighting to develop their own way of living within the forest in a world that's clean, a world that isn't contaminated, a world that isn't polluted. 
But, of course, my real field of expertise lies in an even different kind of civilization -- I can't really call it a civilization. 
And I propose to bring into this TED conference, as I always do around the world, the voice of the animal kingdom. 
The chimps -- there's no time to discuss their fascinating lives -- but they have this long childhood, five years of suckling and sleeping with the mother, and then another three, four or five years of emotional dependence on her, even when the next child is born. 
They can actually live longer than 60 in captivity, so we've only done 40 years in the wild so far. 
We know that chimpanzees and some other creatures can recognize themselves in mirrors -- self as opposed to other. 
They're disappearing for the reasons that all of you in this room know only too well. 
And people will pay more for bush-meat, as it's called, than for domestic meat -- it's culturally preferred. 
We can talk about the distant past, plan for the distant future, discuss ideas with each other, so that the ideas can grow from the accumulated wisdom of a group. 
And that's not just in the far-away developing world; that's everywhere. 
Somebody said that yesterday. 
And Roots and Shoots is a program for hope. 
See the brick walls as all the problems that we've inflicted on this planet. 
It isn't something that their parents tell them, or their teachers tell them. 
That's effective, but if they decide themselves, We want to clean this river and put the fish back that used to be there. 
No violence, no bombs, no guns. 
How many more minutes? Two, one? 
And it's been so clear how much you all care about trying to make this world a better place. 
It's very encouraging. 
And we've talked a lot about that. 
And then as I went around the country after that and felt the fear -- the fear that was leading to people feeling they couldn't worry about the environment any more, in case they seemed not to be patriotic -- and I was trying to encourage them, somebody came up with a little quotation from Mahatma Gandhi, If you look back through human history, you see that every evil regime has been overcome by good. 
And just after that a woman brought me this little bell, and I want to end on this note. 
It's in our hands. 
If we lead lives where we consciously leave the lightest possible ecological footprints, if we buy the things that are ethical for us to buy and don't buy the things that are not, we can change the world overnight. 
In the laboratory what we want to do is much the same, but with on the order of tens of different types of molecules -- so a drastic reduction in complexity, but still trying to produce something that looks lifelike. 
This is how we can start to make a protocell. 
As you know, when you put oil and water together, they don't mix, but through self-assembly we can get a nice oil droplet to form, and we can actually use this as a body for our artificial organism or for our protocell, as you will see later. 
This structure, then, can organize the formation of a membrane boundary around itself, so it can make a body of liquid molecules around itself, and that's shown in green here on this micrograph. 
It's actually quite lifeless. Once it forms, it doesn't really do anything. 
So some things that are missing is, for example, if you had a flow of energy through a system, what we'd want is a protocell that can harvest some of that energy in order to maintain itself, much like living systems do. 
So I add some food source to the system. 
So then we put these protocells together in a single experiment to see what they would do, and depending on the conditions, we have some protocells on the left that are moving around and it likes to touch the other structures in its environment. 
So then I repeated this experiment a bunch of times, and one time something very interesting happened. 
So since we can make some interesting protocells that we like, interesting colors and interesting behaviors, and they're very easy to make, and they have interesting lifelike properties, perhaps these protocells have something to tell us about the origin of life on the Earth. Perhaps these represent an easily accessible step, one of the first steps by which life got started on the early Earth. 
They look really good, very nice movement, and also they appear to have some kind of behavior where they kind of circle around each other and follow each other, similar to what we've seen before -- but again, working with just primordial conditions, no pure chemicals. 
They're even better models of environmental health, because not only the same mammalian biology, but they share your diet, largely. 
So they drank as much vodka as they did plain water, which was interesting. 
I just want to say it was sort of a rule of thumb though, there's about two or three fire hydrants on every city block. 
They flatten a few plants. No big deal, they'll regenerate. 
That 99 percent of the time when a firetruck is not parking there, it's infiltrating pollutants. 
So these are small actions that can amount to a significant effect to improve local environmental health. 
Here's one of them that we have up now. 
When a fish swims underneath, a light goes on. 
This is what it looks like. 
So there's another function on here. 
And they text back. 
In this case, instead of throwing chewing gum, or Doritos or whatever you have in your pocket at the fish -- There's a body of water in Iceland that I've been dealing with that's in the middle of the city, and the largest pollution burden on it is not the roadborne pollution, it's actually white bread from people feeding the fish and the birds. 
They're cross-species delicious that is, delicious for humans and non-humans. 
And you say, boy, that's a lot. 
But you know what? 
Now, if you parked those end to end and wrapped them around the Earth, that would stretch around the Earth 125 times. 
And we wanted to take advantage of Moore's Law with electronic controls and software, and we absolutely wanted our car to be connected. 
So let me talk about hydrogen first. 
The beauty of hydrogen is it can come from so many different sources: it can come from fossil fuels, it can come from any way that you can create electricity, including renewables. 
And hydrogen and fuel cells give us that opportunity to actually use our cars and trucks when they're parked to generate electricity for the grid. 
And we talked about swarm networks earlier. 
Actually the theme of this conference, I think, has hit on really one of the major keys to pull that off -- and that's relationships and working together. 
I just want to ask one. 
We're into this over a billion dollars already, so I would hope people would think we're serious when we're spending that kind of money. 
In Oxford, perhaps we can use Lewis Carroll and look in the looking glass that is New York City to try and see our true selves, or perhaps pass through to another world. 
My colleagues and I have been working for 10 years to rediscover this lost world in a project we call The Mannahatta Project. 
And I'd like to tell you the story in three acts, and if I have time still, an epilogue. 
It was once a beach. And this painting has John James Audubon, the painter, sitting on the rock. 
Or this painting, from the 1740s, from Greenwich Village. 
Here's Bowling Green. And here's Broadway. 
And just beyond it you can see features that have vanished, things that have disappeared. 
Or Murray Hill. And this is the Murrays' house on Murray Hill, 200 years ago. 
And I thought to myself, You know, if I could georeference this map, if I could place this map in the grid of the city today, I could find these lost features of the city, in the block-by-block geography that people know, the geography of where people go to work, and where they go to live, and where they like to eat. 
Then, if we added maps like the geology, the bedrock geology, and the surface geology, what the glaciers leave, if we make the soil map, with the 17 soil classes, that are defined by the National Conservation Service, if we make a digital elevation model of the topography that tells us how high the hills were, then we can calculate the slopes. 
We can calculate the aspect. 
The white areas on this map are the places protected from the winter winds. 
We compiled all the information about where the Native Americans were, the Lenape. 
And the old fields, the successional fields that go. 
It was really an extraordinary landscape that was capable of supporting an extraordinary biodiversity. 
As if these were the maps that we would need to predict where you would find the beaver. 
An aspen needs fire and dry soils. 
But what are the conditions that make it possible? 
And these would be the kind of trees that might have been there, and the flowers and the lichens and the mosses, the butterflies, the fish in the stream, the birds in the trees. 
And perhaps a black bear walked by. And maybe Native Americans were there. 
And we used it to try and reveal a landscape here in Act III. 
We can see the fields that the Native Americans made. 
So when you're watching Law and Order, and the lawyers walk up the steps they could have walked back down those steps of the New York Court House, right into the Collect Pond, 400 years ago. 
And I think this is what we're learning about building cities in the future. 
This is the particular additional habitat requirement of humanity. 
Fill in the blanks. 
Unfortunately, while this society is, without a doubt, the most prosperous and dynamic the world has ever created, it's got some major, major flaws. 
Clearly we don't have 10 planets. 
And they may not want to live exactly like us. 
You know, so on the one hand we have the unthinkable; on the other hand we have the unimaginable. 
You know, what we're out there doing is looking for examples of tools, models and ideas, which, if widely adopted, would change the game. 
Here, for example, is Vancouver, which if you haven't been there, you ought to go for a visit. It's a fabulous city. 
But once you also have people living in close proximity to each other, one of the things you can do is -- as information technologies develop -- you can start to have smart places. 
They live in the emerging megacities of the developing world. 
All throughout the developing world, people are going directly to cell phones, skipping the whole landline stage. 
When you have free ability for people to freely work together and innovate, you get different kinds of solutions. 
And those solutions are accessible in a different way to people who don't have capital. Right? 
It's doing something new. There's new things happening. 
You have other radical examples where the ability to use cultural tools is spreading out. 
Another world is possible. 
We tweak that a lot. 
We're looking a lot at this. This is spreading everywhere. 
This is from A Force More Powerful. It's a little screenshot. 
These are refrigerators that require no electricity; they're pot within a pot design. 
How do we help people like that? 
Audience: It detects landmines. 
If you are living in one of the places where the roughly half-billion unaccounted for mines are scattered, you can fling these seeds out into the field. 
And policing copyright violations for children's birthday cakes was such a hassle that the College Bakery said, You know what, we're getting out of that business. 
If you're an amateur, you don't have access to our machine anymore. 
So the policing layer around the problem becomes the real threat of the act. 
And the back story is this: SOPA and PIPA, as legislation, were drafted largely by media companies that were founded in the 20th century. 
And Congress did something. 
And that law was called the Audio Home Recording Act of 1992. 
So when the Audio Home Recording Act of 1992 was passed, the media businesses gave up on the idea of legal versus illegal distinctions for copying because it was clear that if Congress was acting in their framework, they might actually increase the rights of citizens to participate in our own media environment. 
It was a complicated piece of legislation, a lot of moving parts. 
That is a side effect of their ordinary operation. 
Every DVD player and game player and television and computer you brought home -- no matter what you thought you were getting when you bought it -- could be broken by the content industries, if they wanted to set that as a condition of selling you the content. 
So this is the Internet they have in mind. 
Imagine it says TED, because the comments can't be policed at any acceptable cost. 
And if you're not an American citizen, you can contact American citizens that you know and encourage them to do the same. 
And the DMCA goes back to the Audio Home Recording Act, which horrified those industries. 
They just want the sharing to go away. 
The whole world is laid out for you, the best jobs are laid out for you, and you want to go and work in a village? 
What the poor thought was important would be reflected in the college. 
You failed in your exam? 
The education system in India makes you look at Paris and New Delhi and Zurich; what are you doing in this village? 
You have to have a dignity of labor. 
A traditional midwife is a professional. 
And it's the only college where we don't give a certificate. 
So when I said that, they said, Well show us what is possible. What are you doing? 
The men should clear out because we don't want to share this technology with the men. 
It's the only college which is fully solar-electrified. 
So long as the sun shines, we'll have no problem with power. 
And we have 60 meals twice a day of solar cooking. 
She looks after 20 goats in the morning, but she's prime minister in the evening. 
Wasn't dazzled at all by what was happening. 
Where the percentage of illiteracy is very high, we use puppetry. 
Why? Because they want to leave the village and go to a city, looking for a job. 
Comes back, goes into the village, says, Well what's the story? 
They said, These two grandmothers ...  Grandmothers? The minister couldn't believe what was happening. 
Went straight to the president. 
So he summoned me and said, Can you train me 150 grandmothers? 
I said, Yeah, she is very beautiful. 
And when I went back six months later, I said, Where's your husband? 
Don't listen to the World Bank, listen to the people on the ground. 
Our scientist colleagues are finding new patterns in the information. 
For artists, we're making new worlds that we can uncover and explore. 
The white dots are the probability wave that will show you where the electron is in any given point of time and space in this particular three-orbital configuration. 
What kind of remarkable machinery does this guy have in his head? 
A system of cognitive processes, largely non-conscious cognitive processes, that help them change their views of the world, so that they can feel better about the worlds in which they find themselves. 
Who are these characters who are so damn happy? 
Some of you are old enough to remember: he was the chairman of the House of Representatives and he resigned in disgrace when this young Republican named Newt Gingrich found out about a shady book deal he had done. 
So he went to find them. They said, We can give you a franchise on this for 3,000 bucks. 
And finally: never ever join the Beatles.  
In this case, because the experiment I'm going to tell you about uses them, these are Monet prints. 
We did this experiment with a group of patients who had anterograde amnesia. These are hospitalized patients. 
We then gave them the choice between number three and number four. 
Really, Jim, you don't remember? I was just here with the Monet prints? 
Free? Aren't you just giving me my own paper? 
What are you doing? 
They don't like their picture, and in fact even after the opportunity to swap has expired, they still don't like their picture. Why? 
We could do it so that when you take the two pictures, you'd have four days to change your mind, or we're doing another course where you take the two pictures and you make up your mind right away and you can never change it. Which course would you like to be in? 
Let me parenthetically pause here and tell you -- Esther, my mother, had stopped driving several years ago, to the collective relief of the entire city of Atlanta. 
There's a historical marker. 
I guess I must. 
Oh, Jesus. 
Puts it in reverse. Fifty-five out of the driveway, in reverse. 
I've got a white-knuckle grip on the door. You know what I'm talking about? 
And there she goes, right. 
OK, so I stopped at a light and there's a guy, you know, in the back. 
Now, you have all been at a mall during the holidays, yes? 
It will upset you. 
Look, the Chevy -- he's coming this way. 
How many of you once in your -- you were a kid, you were an adult -- you stood in a parking space to hold it for someone? 
Of course, her comeback is, When have I embarrassed you? 
A brevity, brevity of everything with this child. 
But she pauses occasionally and says, How do you spell that? What year? OK. 
When she writes the expose in about 20 years, don't believe a word of it. 
But this is my daughter, Lauren, my remarkable daughter, my borderline Asperger's kid. 
She says, Ma, you got to look! 
Now, when this kid says I got to look, you know. 
Oh, Jesus. Oh, Jesus. 
I finally come -- and now, it's the South. 
We want to curl up and say, Tell it to me, tell it to me. 
I'm with the little lady. Damn! 
After I say -- let me refresh you -- have you no shame? 
With her is a young man -- husband, brother, lover, it's not my job. 
They turn then, shoulder to shoulder, and walk away, lost in their own reverie. 
And they use motors that literally are used on cruise missile boosters. 
Voices: Woohoo! Yeah. Nice. 
What are catastrophic effects? A three degree centigrade climate change rise that will result in 50 percent species extinction. 
But now I'll talk about some more pleasant things. 
How fabulous. Why would you ever want to go by yourself in your own car? 
Where can I go today and who can I do it with? 
It's when you charge a premium for people to drive on congested roads. 
In London, the day they turned the congestion pricing on, there was a 25 percent decrease in congestion overnight, and that's persisted for the four years in which they've been doing congestion pricing. 
You weren't going to put tollbooths around the city of London and open and shut those gates. 
And road pricing is where we're all going to have to go, because today we pay for our maintenance and wear and tear on our cars with gas taxes. 
And if we have it, you'll decide how many miles to drive, what mode of travel, where to live and work. 
Again, all mesh-enabled. Monthly communication cost: zero. 
They're resilient; their redundancy is built into this fabulous decentralized design. 
These things are going to happen. 
Maybe we shouldn't wait for the 10 or 15 years for this to happen. 
And if I had my druthers, we would have an open-source version in addition to open standards. 
When I went this morning to Larry Brilliant's TEDTalk prize -- his fabulous networks -- imagine if there was an open-source mesh communications device that can be put into those networks, to make all that happen. 
So the Awesome story: It begins about 40 years ago, when my mom and my dad came to Canada. 
My dad left a small village outside of Amritsar, India. 
And they got here in the late 1960s. 
We grew up taking for granted a lot of the things that my parents couldn't take for granted when they grew up -- things like power always on in our houses, things like schools across the street and hospitals down the road and popsicles in the backyard. 
So you can't actually see them, but it was breathtaking, believe me. 
My marriage wasn't going well, and we just were growing further and further apart. 
One day my wife came home from work and summoned the courage, through a lot of tears, to have a very honest conversation. 
And as these dark clouds were circling me, and I was finding it really, really difficult to think of anything good, I said to myself that I really needed a way to focus on the positive somehow. 
And nobody read it except for my mom. 
Flash-forward to the next year and The Book of Awesome has now been number one on the bestseller list for 20 straight weeks. 
But look, I said I wanted to do three things with you today. 
It's sad, and it's not pleasant to talk about, but your husband might leave you, your girlfriend could cheat, your headaches might be more serious than you thought, or your dog could get hit by a car on the street. 
And there are times in life when you will be tossed in the well, too, with twists in your stomach and with holes in your heart, and when that bad news washes over you, and when that pain sponges and soaks in, I just really hope you feel like you've always got two choices. 
Because you all used to be three years old. 
That three-year-old girl is still part of you. 
These were four guys on the L.A. Rams in the 1960s you did not want to go up against. 
I'd like to pause my TEDTalk for about 10 seconds right now, because you don't get many opportunities in life to do something like this, and my parents are sitting in the front row. 
He would say, Look, can you believe they have a mango here from Mexico? 
You can sleep in clean sheets. 
The cashiers at your grocery store, the foreman at your plant, the guy tailgating you home on the highway, the telemarketer calling you during dinner, every teacher you've ever had, everyone that's ever woken up beside you, every politician in every country, every actor in every movie, every single person in your family, everyone you love, everyone in this room and you will be dead in a hundred years. 
Thank you. 
Dan Rather: Since the September 11th attack on the World Trade Center, many people have flocked to downtown New York to see and pay respects at what amounts to the 16-acre burial ground. 
Now, as CBS's Jim Axelrod reports, they're putting the finishing touches on a new way for people to visit and view the scene. 
There's a new place in New York where the crowds are thickest -- Ground Zero. 
This is ours. 
David Rockwell: The first experience people will have here when they see this is not as a construction site but as this incredibly moving burial ground. 
The walls are bare by design, so people can fill them with their own memorials the way they already have along the current perimeter. 
Your work is highly sensual, even hedonistic. 
But I've got to tell you -- it became impossible to do that. 
We were really paralyzed. 
And in discussing this with other architects, we had seen people saying in the press that they should rebuild the towers as they were -- they should rebuild them 50 stories taller. 
It was predominantly a white, rich, corporate group that was not representative of the city. 
And I think this was the 21st, and we knew this had to be built and up by the 28th. 
In fact, it was as if this was going to be window-washing scaffolding. 
And I've got to say that we spent a lot of time in putting this together, watching the crowds that gathered at Saint Paul -- which is just to the right -- and moving around the site. 
No. In fact I told the contractor to go ahead. 
I think this is, obviously, substantially different from anything we'd ever thought about doing before, just by the nature of it. 
Well, I think one thing that shouldn't be done is evaluate -- I think right now the discussion is a very closed discussion on the master plan. 
I don't think it has much to do with 50 or 60 or 70 or 80 thousand new office spaces, regardless of what the number is. 
And in fact, there's a proposal on the table now for building number seven. 
Right, which the towers fell into. 
And the reason that's been held up is essentially by community outrage that they're not re-opening the street to connect that back to the rest of the city. 
This small foundation we put together is looking for other ways to help. 
So I thought that would be good to end with. 
One of the tricky issues we had with the Giuliani administration was I had forgotten how anti-graffiti he was. 
And essentially our structure was designed to be written on. 
As you say, it's not a memorial. 
But the kind of virtually instantaneous nature of its erection, and its being there, almost before you could believe that a response of this magnitude could be accomplished, is part of its extraordinary -- I don't know if beauty is the word -- but presence. 
So, a funny thing happened on my way to becoming a brilliant, world-class neuropsychologist: I had a baby. 
Sorry, TED. 
Because this is what I do. This is what I teach. 
So look to the right-hand side of the screen. 
Would it be crazy to know, 103 Gs. 
How do we know that legislation that would require that they be pulled from play, cleared for return to play, applies to them? 
If, God forbid, any of us left here tonight and sustained a concussion, most of us would go on to fully recover inside of a couple hours to a couple of weeks. 
Should your kid play football? I don't know. 
The first: study up. 
We've just rolled this out in the last couple months -- CO Kids With Brain Injury. 
Now I thought that it was because I have this totally compelling helmet crusade, right, this epiphany of Tom's. 
Thank you. 
This is but one: this is Frank Gehry the architect's precursor to the Guggenheim in Abu Dhabi. 
So my first topic with respect to this, was not death, but obesity. 
So this is a slide of some of our initial results. 
How big are the clusters? How far do they reach? 
This here shows, on the Y-axis, the increase in the probability that a person is obese given that a social contact of theirs is obese and, on the X-axis, the degrees of separation between the two people. 
And the next bar over, the [red] line, says if your friend's friends are obese, your risk of obesity is 25 percent higher. 
There are at least three possibilities: One possibility is that, as I gain weight, it causes you to gain weight. 
Another more subtle possibility is that they start gaining weight, and it changes your ideas of what an acceptable body size is. 
Now, I want to be very clear: We do not think our work should or could justify prejudice against people of one or another body size at all. 
And, by the end, you're going to see clusters of obese and non-obese individuals within the network. 
And so this function of emotions suggests that, in addition to any other purpose they serve, they're a kind of primitive form of communication. 
And whether you become happy or not depends in part on whether you occupy a happy patch. 
So, this work with emotions, which are so fundamental, then got us to thinking about: Maybe the fundamental causes of human social networks are somehow encoded in our genes. 
Well, the striking patterns of human social networks, their ubiquity and their apparent purpose beg questions about whether we evolved to have human social networks in the first place, and whether we evolved to form networks with a particular structure. 
And, finally, compare nodes C and D: C and D both have six friends. 
But now we, with a bird's eye view looking at this network, can see that they occupy very different social worlds. 
So different structural locations have different implications for your life. 
They are a kind of social capital. 
New properties emerge because of our embeddedness in social networks, and these properties inhere in the structure of the networks, not just in the individuals within them. 
They're both made of carbon, and yet one of them has carbon atoms in it that are arranged in one particular way -- on the left -- and you get graphite, which is soft and dark. 
If I was always violent towards you or gave you misinformation or made you sad or infected you with deadly germs, you would cut the ties to me, and the network would disintegrate. 
I'd never seen anything like that. 
But after seeing what I've seen, the truth is, they have not disappeared at all. 
And this is happening every day. 
And from these bedrooms and living rooms and garages, with cheap webcams, lies the world's great dancers of tomorrow. 
And you let it go, and then right when you see the tail, you grab it by the tail, then you bring it back in. 
You know, you create power, then you tame it. 
According to the treaty, those lands are a sovereign nation. 
1868: The second Fort Laramie Treaty clearly guarantees the sovereignty of the Great Sioux Nation and the Lakotas' ownership of the sacred Black Hills. 
A new agreement was presented to Sioux chiefs and their leading men under a campaign known as sell or starve: Sign the paper, or no food for your tribe. 
Reservations are cut up into 160-acre sections and distributed to individual Indians with the surplus disposed of. 
Tribes lost millions of acres. 
To this day, this is the most Medals of Honor ever awarded for a single battle. 
Unemployment on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation fluctuates between 85 and 90 percent. 
This is how we came to own these United States. 
And how much of this history do you need to own, even? 
Because the solution seems so far in the past, I needed nothing short of a time machine to access them. 
That's why there's a glass of water up there. 
This solution has been called, by some, potentially the most important medical advance this century. 
And what it was was oral rehydration salts. 
Maybe there's a biological answer. 
See, we spent a lot of energy, in many domains -- technological, scientific, hard work, creativity, human ingenuity -- to crack important social problems with technology solutions. 
Here I have a bunch of other examples, all suffer from the last mile problem. 
The last mile is, everywhere, problematic. 
The problem is this little three-pound machine that's behind your eyes and between your ears. 
They do lots of inconsistent things. 
Now, diarrhea's interesting because it's been around for thousands of years, ever since humankind really lived side by side enough to have really polluted water. 
So, think of the mental model that goes behind reducing the intake. 
So, here you all are, ostensibly educated people. 
Most of you look smart. 
I think we've learned the answer to that here. 
Almost out of kindergarten. 
These models, like the leaky bucket, work well in most situations. 
They are situations where the mental model doesn't match the reality. 
So now, while you're thinking about that let's move to a second task. 
Fifty versus 35, that's a big move. Eleven versus nine? Come on. 
So far, I've been pretty negative. 
You just gotta carry this thing around. 
Here's another example of this. 
This is from a company called Positive Energy. 
And what they find is just this letter, nothing else, has a two to three percent reduction in electricity use. 
We have testing, we go to the lab, we try it again, we have refinement. 
So, this whole area is so fascinating. 
How you take your insights here and actually get them integrated into working business models on the ground, in Indian villages, for example? 
We work closely with companies that have operational capacity, or nonprofits that have operational capacity. 
If you have biological problems we try and fix it, see if it works, and then work the scale. 
When the magazine -- actually, when I got the subscription -- it was 12 following pages. 
If it's -- see it for a long enough time, I actually do something about it. 
Thank you so much. 
Well now if I take that sugar dough, the sugar dough doesn't want to conduct electricity. 
We call this our sushi circuit. It's very popular with kids. 
I plug in again the power to it. 
I can start plugging in lots of lights. 
We've got some videos. You can make them yourselves. 
We've had a mom in Utah who used them with her kids, to a science researcher in the U.K., and curriculum developers in Hawaii. 
Up, don't move the wrist. Over the heart, don't move the wrist. 
And then look at me. 
Good. Nice. And you can sit over there. 
Which one shall have a good poker hand? 
This guy beats them with four of a kind, or deuce -- deuce. 
No reaction? That with even -- OK, and this. 
These look in order, I'm probably -- hopefully -- yeah. Three, four, five, six, seven and ... 
Such life. Right? 
Now, if you are interested, I will demonstrate some underground techniques. 
Right? You agree. 
OK. 
So -- because if you look, now, I can still see it. 
Come to -- no, no, no, no. 
When I'm sober, I do this much quicker, but we will check. 
Pardon? But then, when we will have it back, you do this. 
Perfect. 
Please name any card, anyone. 
My fault. Don't applaud, this was clubs. 
But now I do it the regular speed, right? 
Excellent. 
and queen of hearts. Yes! 
So, now a false count. 
Right, sorry, my -- I should have mentioned that, yeah. 
Yeah, good. 
I liked it. Now, a little more difficult. 
You see, I don't work with prestige, so always do mistakes. 
One, two, three, four -- yes, the camera got it? Five, six, seven, eight -- ah -- nine, 10, the jack, jack of spades, queen of -- I like that laugh, yeah! Good. Queen. 
There was the place. And here is king of spades, correct? 
Ah, this is tough. 
Maybe it's important -- yeah -- nine of diamonds, OK. 
And I give you a diamonds, so they -- so you put them here, in a nice row, right. And you can see, yeah? Good. 
You're peeking. You just got to -- this is a request from the lady in the back. 
We will try. 
And there are some of us who think you ain't seen nothing yet. 
I see some of you recognize this child. 
At that point, they usually give up. 
And the 10-year-old, on every eight notes. 
It can be the other buttock. 
These are the people who never listen to classical music. 
You couldn't tell the difference between somebody from Texas and somebody from Rome. 
Of course, I'm not sure they'll be up to it. 
Do you know what I think probably happened in this room? 
And for the rest of your life, every time you hear classical music, you'll always be able to know if you hear those impulses. 
Do you remember Hamlet? Act one, scene three, he finds out that his uncle killed his father. 
No, otherwise the play would be over, stupid. 
Now, he tries the E again. That chord doesn't work. 
And I've one last request before I play this piece all the way through. 
And I did exactly what I did with you, and I told them and explained them and the whole thing. 
Now, how would you walk -- because you know, my profession, the music profession doesn't see it that way. 
People in my orchestra came up to me and said, Ben, what happened? That's what happened. 
Who am I being, that my children's eyes are not shining? 
I learned this from a woman who survived Auschwitz, one of the rare survivors. 
And she told me this, she said, We were in the train going to Auschwitz, and I looked down and saw my brother's shoes were missing. 
Thank you. 
Here's what he did. He gathered his participants. 
If you're the fastest of everyone we're testing here today, you get 20 dollars. 
But for a lot of tasks, they actually either don't work or, often, they do harm. 
If you look at the science, there is a mismatch between what science knows and what business does. 
But for 21st century tasks, that mechanistic, reward-and-punishment approach doesn't work, often doesn't work, and often does harm. 
Same deal. You: we're timing for norms. 
Low-cost providers around the world can do it cheaper. 
The rules are mystifying. 
Okay? But one the task called for even rudimentary cognitive skill, a larger reward led to poorer performance. 
People offered the medium level of rewards did no better than people offered the small rewards. 
In eight of the nine tasks we examined across three experiments, higher incentives led to worse performance. 
Last month, just last month, economists at LSE looked at 51 studies of pay-for-performance plans, inside of companies. 
There is a mismatch between what science knows and what business does. 
Purpose: the yearning to do what we do in the service of something larger than ourselves. 
Traditional notions of management are great if you want compliance. 
A few times a year they tell their engineers, Go for the next 24 hours and work on anything you want, as long as it's not part of your regular job. 
And then, being Australians, everybody has a beer. 
That one day of intense autonomy has produced a whole array of software fixes that might never have existed. 
They have autonomy over their time, their task, their team, their technique. 
Autonomy, mastery and purpose, versus carrot and sticks. And who wins? 
Three: The secret to high performance isn't rewards and punishments, but that unseen intrinsic drive -- the drive to do things for their own sake. 
So this, again, is on the subject -- a slice from the equator of the Earth. 
It turns once per day in synchrony with the Earth. 
This would be grown, I suppose, with nanotechnology in the future sometime. 
So if we could roll the next film here. 
This has evolved over the years in a lot of different iterations. 
The idea of this air genie is, it's something that can just transform and become anything. 
And then it would have a corresponding website that would show the itinerary of this. 
Um, he was happy. 
Let's see somebody else, a great conductor. 
He's a nice guy. He's a really nice guy. 
It's not true. When he was a young man of about 30, he wrote what he called The Ten Commandments for Conductors. 
The first one was: If you sweat by the end of the concert it means that you must have done something wrong. 
Now, either he is senile, and doesn't remember his own music, because he wrote the music. 
So, no, he doesn't want that. That's a different kind of control. 
Once like a Muti, and you'll --  -- clap, just once. 
And then like Karajan. Let's see what happens. Okay? 
And when Karajan is asked about it he actually says, Yes, the worst damage I can do to my orchestra is to give them a clear instruction. 
Well, it is different. But isn't that controlling in the same way? 
Look at the eyes. 
And you're playing a painful sound. 
Now it's a reversed thing. You're telling the story. And you're telling the story. 
But all my work for many years was focused around the idea that sustainability means basically looking at the globalized economic growth model, and moderating what comes in at one end, and moderating the outputs at the other end. 
If you could help me with that it would be fantastic. 
It's open source. It's something which everybody who's involved with it develops and passes on as they work with it. 
It's self-organizing. There is no great central organization that pushes this; people just pick up an idea and they run with it, and they implement it where they are. 
And it's really about how systems, settlements, withstand shock from the outside. 
When our supermarkets have only two or three days' worth of food in them at any one time, often sustainability tends to focus on the energy efficiency of the freezers and on the packaging that the lettuces are wrapped up in. 
It's a process which is playful and creative and informative. 
And there are thousands of others who are at what we call the mulling stage. 
A lot of places are working with their local schools. 
And also starting to play around with the idea of alternative currencies. 
And we see it all over the place as well now. 
This is probably the most boring topic of the whole morning. 
Many of the people involved have special interests or short-term interests that get them not thinking about what the implications of the trends are. 
Now how did we get here? 
They make you pay more in withholding just to help their cash flow out. 
And California's not unique. 
There's ways, if it's temporary, to minimize the impact, but it's a problem. 
Well you have to allocate dollars for that system and for that incentive pay. 
Well there really is no brain trust. 
So what do we need to do? 
Whenever they say there's these long-term problems, we can't say, Oh, you're the messenger with bad news? 
Now I think this is a solvable problem. 
What do I know that would cause me, a reticent, Midwestern scientist, to get myself arrested in front of the White House protesting? 
Did it mean that Venus had an ionosphere? 
And it was kept hot by a thick carbon dioxide atmosphere. 
Its changes will affect all of humanity. 
British physicist John Tyndall, in the 1850's, made laboratory measurements of the infrared radiation, which is heat. 
Most of the things mentioned in our 1981 paper were facts. 
I had the privilege to speak twice to the president's climate task force. 
Let me describe the most important conclusion from the physics -- first, from Earth's energy balance and, second, from Earth's climate history. 
Now finally, we can measure Earth's energy imbalance precisely by measuring the heat content in Earth's heat reservoirs. 
The biggest reservoir, the ocean, was the least well measured, until more than 3,000 Argo floats were distributed around the world's ocean. 
Yet, there was more energy coming in than going out. 
These curves for global temperature, atmospheric CO2 and sea level were derived from ocean cores and Antarctic ice cores, from ocean sediments and snowflakes that piled up year after year over 800,000 years forming a two-mile thick ice sheet. 
And more CO2 causes more warming. 
So CO2, methane, and ice sheets were feedbacks that amplified global temperature change causing these ancient climate oscillations to be huge, even though the climate change was initiated by a very weak forcing. 
And the rate has accelerated since the measurements began nine years ago. 
Ice sheets would continue to disintegrate for centuries. 
What may be more reprehensible, if climate denial continues, is extermination of species. 
An important impact, if global warming continues, will be on the breadbasket of our nation and the world, the Midwest and Great Plains, which are expected to become prone to extreme droughts, worse than the Dust Bowl, within just a few decades, if we let global warming continue. 
I need your help to communicate the gravity and the urgency of this situation and its solutions more effectively. 
A parachute jump from the very edge of space. 
What I'd like to do first is take you through a very brief helicopter ride of stunts and the stunts industry in the movies and in television, and show you how technology has started to interface with the physical skills of the stunt performer in a way that makes the stunts bigger and actually makes them safer than they've ever been before. 
I'm a stunt coordinator. And as well as perform stunts I often design them. 
What safety they had was very scant. 
This is the first stunt woman, Rosie Venger, an amazing woman. 
Yakima Canutt really formed the stunt fight. 
Talking of dangerous stunts and bringing things slightly up to date, some of the most dangerous stunts we do as stunt people are fire stunts. 
Well, we used to use trampettes. In the old days, that's all they had. 
And that's a ramp. Spring off the thing and fly through the air, and hopefully you make it look good. 
Now we've got technology. This thing is called an air ram. 
Rolling a car over is another area where we use technology. 
That's a long way to fall, if you get it wrong. That was just about right. 
This is a shot of Terminator, the movie. 
It's 30 feet. It's water. It's very simple. 
This guy is not skydiving. He's being flown like a kite, or moved around like a kite. 
It's that shape because the helium has to expand. 
Certainly at 100,000 feet no aircraft will fly. 
We will have two balloons for each of my test jumps, and two balloons for the main jump, because they notoriously tear on takeoff. 
A drogue chute is just a smaller chute which helps to keep your face down. 
It's hundreds of feet high. It's enormous. 
It's a three sided box, basically. 
That's the prototype of the parachute. I've now had them custom make one, the only one of its kind in the world. And that's the only suit of its kind in the world. 
Then they're comfortable, they have good vision, like this great big visor. 
And then if the cabin depressurizes while the aircraft is coming back down, in whatever emergency measures, everyone is okay. 
But if you are, and you say to somebody, you know, they say, What do you do? 
Like religion, and money and other things. 
What you have there is a person of extraordinary dedication who found a talent. And my contention is, all kids have tremendous talents. 
Thank you very much.  So, 15 minutes left. 
And the girl said, I'm drawing a picture of God. 
He was in the Nativity play. 
You may have seen it: Nativity II. But James got the part of Joseph, which we were thrilled about. 
We had the place crammed full of agents in T-shirts: James Robinson IS Joseph!  
Anyway, the three boys came in -- four-year-olds with tea towels on their heads -- and they put these boxes down, and the first boy said, I bring you gold. 
And the third boy said, Frank sent this.  
They have become frightened of being wrong. 
So why is this? 
You don't think of Shakespeare having a father, do you? 
Shakespeare being seven? I never thought of it. I mean, he was seven at some point. He was in somebody's English class, wasn't he? How annoying would that be? 
And stop speaking like that. It's confusing everybody. 
Art and music are normally given a higher status in schools than drama and dance. There isn't an education system on the planet that teaches dance everyday to children the way we teach them mathematics. Why? 
We all have bodies, don't we? Did I miss a meeting? 
And I like university professors, but you know, we shouldn't hold them up as the high-water mark of all human achievement. 
Benign advice -- now, profoundly mistaken. The whole world is engulfed in a revolution. 
Secondly, intelligence is dynamic. 
It's really prompted by a conversation I had with a wonderful woman who maybe most people have never heard of; she's called Gillian Lynne -- have you heard of her? Some have. She's a choreographer and everybody knows her work. 
I grew up at a time when iconic actors from Kuwait, Syria, Egypt used laughter to unite the region, just as football can. 
Also, three guys working for years in Los Angeles, an Iranian, a Palestinian and an Egyptian, created the aptly named Axis of Evil comedy act. 
who had started a successful new tribe. 
I invited our new CEO, and as soon as he realized we had a room packed full of laughing infidels, his reaction was very simple: Let's make this happen. 
Stay away from bolitics in the Middle East. 
Now, were the Axis successful? 
Anywhere you go. 
We're not all angry fanatics who want to kill the infidel. 
For inspiration, go to one of our festivals, go online, drop us a line. 
As my father likes to call him, Asheikh Azubare; as my mother would say, Shakespeare. 
And I'm not a trained academic. 
It was very difficult not to get scared, not to get daunted. 
We want to take one child at a time and take the child right through school, sent to college, and get them prepared for better living, a high value job. 
That was our first school. One hundred sixty-five children. 
But they know there is this myth that children from the slums cannot speak English well. 
Even if it takes me four and a half hours, or three and half hours to finish my book, I do it. 
We have to send the fathers to de-addiction labs and when they come back, most times sober, we have to find a job for them so that they don't regress. 
Art, music are considered therapy and mediums of expression. 
We didn't hire McKinsey to do a business plan. 
He comes for a tummy rub, because he believes that will give me luck.  
I promise you, Parusharam will speak in the TED conference a few years from now. 
I think I was supposed to talk about my new book, which is called Blink, and it's about snap judgments and first impressions. 
So I decided instead, I would talk about someone who I think has done as much to make Americans happy as perhaps anyone over the last 20 years, a man who is a great personal hero of mine: someone by the name of Howard Moskowitz, who is most famous for reinventing spaghetti sauce. 
And one of his first clients was -- this is many years ago, back in the early '70s -- one of his first clients was Pepsi. 
We'd like you to figure out how much aspartame we should put in each can of Diet Pepsi, in order to have the perfect drink. Right? 
And he would think it through and say, what was wrong? 
Why could we not make sense of this experiment with Diet Pepsi? 
This was his horseradish.  He was obsessed with it! 
You'd have a plate of spaghetti, and you would pour it on, right? 
And of those three facts, the third one was the most significant, because at the time, in the early 1980s, if you went to a supermarket, you would not find extra-chunky spaghetti sauce. 
And Prego turned to Howard, and they said, You telling me that one third of Americans crave extra-chunky spaghetti sauce and yet no one is servicing their needs? And he said yes! 
It's a mystery! 
What percentage of you actually like a dark, rich, hearty roast? 
A mustard of more sophistication and culture and meaning. 
There is no perfect mustard or imperfect mustard. 
And where did that come from? It came from Italy. 
When we talked about authentic tomato sauce in the 1970s, we talked about Italian tomato sauce. We talked about the earliest ragus, which had no visible solids, right? 
Because we thought that what it took to make people happy was to provide them with the most culturally authentic tomato sauce, A; and B, we thought that if we gave them the culturally authentic tomato sauce, then they would embrace it. 
I guess my cancer different from your cancer. 
And for that, we owe him a great vote of thanks. 
And the example he used was coffee. 
But to us he was just Dad, and our home life was pretty normal. 
And I think a lot of people in his day probably thought he was a bit of a kook. 
Or even the people who actually pulled it off, the people at Bolt, Beranek and Newman in Boston, who just would sketch out these structures of what would eventually become a worldwide network, and sketching things on the back of napkins and on note papers and arguing over dinner at Howard Johnson's -- on Route 128 in Lexington, Massachusetts, just two miles from where I was studying the Queen's Gambit Deferred and listening to Gladys Knight &amp; the Pips singing Midnight Train to Georgia, while --  -- in my dad's big easy chair, you know? 
Another one which believes in the pure transparency of content. 
These are four very different ways of looking at the world. I even gave them names. 
And there's also a balance between the visible and the invisible in comics. 
This was even before the Web. 
And so, what they would do is, they'd have these comic pages that resemble print comics pages, and they would introduce all this sound and motion. 
The distance from Abraham Lincoln to a Lincoln penny, the Penny Marshall to the Marshall Plan to Plan 9 to nine lives: it's all the same. 
So I had all these notions. This was back in the late '90s, and other people in my business thought I was pretty crazy, but a lot of people then went on and actually did it. 
I just want to get to the last panel. 
Talk about your infinite canvas. 
Why is this important? 
But media provides us with a window back into the world that we live in. 
Thank you for having me. 
 Strung in the wind I called you   but you did not hear ...   And you're a plant that needs poor soil   and I have treated you too well   to give up flowers ...   Oh, I have been too rich for you ...   Farther than the sun from me   Farther than I'd have you be   And I go north, I get so cold   My heart is lava under stone   You are not worthy   You are not worthy ...   With your calculating eyes   spinning figures   you cannot see me   You cannot see me ...   And if I tell myself enough   I'll believe it   You are not worthy   The sea, it freezes over ...   to trap the light   And I'm in love with being in love   and you were never quite the one   In Gerda's eyes   Fragments of what you've become   And all the moths that fly at night   believe electric light is bright   You are not worthy   You are not worthy   With your calculating eyes   Spinning figures   You cannot see me, no   And if I tell myself enough   I'll believe it   You are not worthy   Farther than the sun from me   Farther than I'd have you be   And I go north, I get so cold   My heart is lava under stone   You are not worthy   You are not worthy   With your calculating eyes   Spinning figures   You cannot see me, no ...   And if I tell myself enough, I'll believe it   Thank you very much. 
And as great as these books were, you could always tell that you were getting close to the full effect. 
And that's when I discovered comedy. 
It takes the base metal of our conventional wisdom and transforms it through ridicule into a different way of seeing and ultimately being in the world. 
Because that's what I take from the theme of this conference: Gained in Translation. 
Now I'm big on speaking to people's self-interest because we're all wired for that. 
Now that's honesty and integrity, and it's also why Fey's performances left such a lasting impression. 
Now whether this says more about the conflict between integrity and profitability of corporate journalism than it does about the attentiveness of Stewart's viewers, the larger point remains that Stewart's material is always grounded in a commitment to the facts -- not because his intent is to inform. It's not. 
His intent is to be funny. 
And just like that, you've been seduced into a different way of looking at something because the endorphins have brought down your defenses. 
Because from what I can tell, the three things gay Americans seem to want most are to join the military, get married and start a family. 
Economy of language is another real strong suit of great comedy. 
How about that? How about we create a better world for nothing? 
And not long after that, he got another request for a copy from the head of the EPA in California who used it as part of her presentation at an international conference on climate change in Sacramento last year. 
And I think that if you're not, there's probably something inherently wrong with the structure or the situation you're in, if you're a designer. 
Being serious is hard. 
Serious design, serious play, is something else. 
Now, I always saw design careers like surreal staircases. 
And as you get older and more decrepit, you sort of inch along on this sort of depressing, long staircase, leading you into oblivion. 
There's a Paul Newman movie that I love called The Verdict. 
This is the case. There are no other cases. 
And that is a wonderful position to be in to create some serious play. 
There was no format. 
I lived and breathed it in a way I haven't with a client since. 
It enabled me to really express myself and grow. 
But something happened to it, and what happened to it was, it became very popular. 
Here's an ad in the New York Times somebody did for a play called Mind Games. 
I'd never done this kind of work before. 
This is Symphony Space on 90th Street and Broadway, and the type is interwoven into the stainless steel and backlit with fiber optics. 
And it was serious play. 
They got into it -- they took the job incredibly seriously. 
But it became the end of the seriousness of the play, and it started to, once again, become solemn. 
And then I spent a year going to long, tedious, boring meetings, trying to sell this logo through to a huge corporation to the point of tears. 
Here's the United States. 
And there are some brilliant linguists, mostly Russians, who are working on that, at Santa Fe Institute and in Moscow, and I would love to see where that leads. 
You may just know more about everything than anyone. 
It was a big idea, for sure, and it was one that he felt could truly inform and deeply affect the decision making of this body through animations of global data, trends and other information regarding the globe, on this sphere. 
We can use LEDs. 
In addition to higher resolution versions of this display, my father and I are working on a new patent-pending design for a fully volumetric display using the same phenomenon. 
And so you could see that as this disc rotates about this axis, it will create a disc of light that we can control. 
That's nothing new: that's a propeller clock; that's the rims that you can buy for your car. 
Now, as we continue to tinker with the oceans, more and more reports are predicting that the kinds of seas that we're creating will be conducive to low-energy type of animals, like jellyfish and bacteria. 
And this is this voracious predator launching a sneak attack on this poor little unsuspecting jellyfish there, a by-the-wind sailor. 
It reaches up to almost 5,000 pounds -- on a diet of jellyfish, primarily. 
They like to sunbathe, can't blame them. 
You know, you look at sharks, and they're streamlined, and they're sleek, and you look at tuna, and they're like torpedoes -- they just give away their agenda. They're about migration and strength, and then you look at the sunfish. 
And this is just so elegantly mysterious, it's just -- it really kind of holds its cards a lot tighter than say, a tuna. 
And from that little egg, they pass through this spiky little porcupine fish stage, reminiscent of their ancestry, and develop -- this is their little adolescent stage. 
That's a little diver up there in the corner. 
How do you do that with an animal -- very few places in the world. 
And it's pictured right here, that little tag up there. 
But they have 40 genera of parasites, and so we figured just one more parasite won't be too much of a problem. 
So what are we trying to find out? We're focusing on the Pacific. 
We're tagging on the California coast, and we're tagging over in Taiwan and Japan. 
Not this time of year -- it's more around October. 
And I'm not exaggerating, it is just -- and sometimes they don't eat them, it's just spiteful. 
And they'll put their fins out and their eyes go in the back of their head, and the fish come up and they just clean, clean, clean -- because the Molas, you know, there's just a smorgasbord of parasites. 
I'm going to show you our latest dataset. 
And we found that they kind of are homebodies. 
So that's a very important piece of data. 
But also what's important is that they're not slacker, lazy fish. 
I set up a website because I was getting so many questions about Molas and sunfish. 
I was getting reports from Catholic nuns, Jewish Rabbis, Muslims, Christians -- everybody writing in, united by their love of life. 
One day a one-eyed monkey came into the forest. 
Under a tree she saw a woman meditating furiously. 
She was the wife of an even more famous Brahmin. 
In India, only 25 percent of rapes come to a police station, and of these 25 percent that come to a police station, convictions are only in four percent of the cases. 
Because nobody can get a kickback. 
Man: And you, you count that she does it right.  
Woman: Here, father, your eight-times folded cotton sari. 
It's that little gene. It's small and it's mean. 
Cause you're either a victim, or on top, like me. 
Goodbye, Martin Luther King. 
There are more people dying of simple things. 
But the princess continued whistling. 
Soon the palace filled with princes whistling. 
Now what shall we do? said the queen. 
The other sort of genesis of what Von Neumann did was the difficulty of how you would predict the weather. 
RCA started this whole thing off, and said, you know, televisions are the future, not computers. 
That's where I grew up as a kid. 
All these forces came together there, in Princeton. 
They didn't fit in at the Institute. 
And what they did at the Institute was publish every step of the way. 
All the computers now are copies of that machine. 
What's code, what's hardware? 
Damn it, I can be just as stubborn as this thing. 
Everything up to this point is wasted time. What's the use? Good night. 
So they really were working under tough conditions. 
Machine run, fine. Code isn't. 
And sometimes things are okay. 
He's still ahead of some of the stuff that's being done now. 
And he found all these, sort of -- it was like a naturalist coming in and looking at this tiny, 5,000-byte universe, and seeing all these things happening that we see in the outside world, in biology. 
And they did start to evolve. 
And it's Julian Bigelow who was running it until midnight when the machine was officially turned off. 
Aunties, uncles, you can continue to put your hands up, aunties and uncles as well. 
We, the adults of the last four generations, have blessed our children with the destiny of a shorter lifespan than their own parents. 
You lot, you're all right, but we'll get you eventually, don't worry. 
We spend our lives being paranoid about death, murder, homicide, you name it; it's on the front page of every paper, CNN. 
Think about smoking. 
And let's be honest, guys, you ain't got that cash. 
But you know what? Her father, who was obese, died in her arms, And then the second most important man in her life, her uncle, died of obesity, and now her step-dad is obese. 
And he's fed up with it. He's fed up with burying his friends, his family, his community. 
Can't even get them out the door -- and I'm being serious -- can't even get them there. Forklift. 
They want to be self -- they want to self-police themselves. 
Normal. Let's get on schools, something that I'm fairly much a specialist in. 
What is school? Who invented it? What's the purpose of school? 
So you could say that school food is quite important, really, judging the circumstances. 
The system is highly run by accountants; there's not enough, or any, food-knowledgeable people in the business. 
We don't teach kids about food. Right? 
And this is a little clip from an elementary school, which is very common in England. 
I want to tell you about something, I want to tell you about something that kind of epitomizes the trouble that we're in, guys. OK? 
I want to talk about something so basic as milk. 
Because someone at the milk board, right -- and don't get me wrong, I support milk -- but someone at the milk board probably paid a lot of money for some geezer to work out that if you put loads of flavorings and colorings and sugar in milk, right, more kids will drink it. Yeah. 
It's in everything. Even the milk hasn't escaped the kind of modern-day problems. 
There's our milk. There's our carton. 
And I've taken the liberty of putting in just the five years of elementary school sugar, just from milk. 
Now, if I came up here, and I wish I could come up here today and hang a cure for AIDS or cancer, you'd be fighting and scrambling to get to me. 
To reboot and make real tangible change, real change, so that I could look you in the white of the eyes and say, In 10 years time, the history of your children's lives, happiness -- and let's not forget, you're clever if you eat well, you know you're going to live longer -- all of that stuff, it will look different. OK? 
Now, also, back to the sort of big brands: Labeling, I said earlier, is an absolute farce and has got to be sorted. 
The workplace, we haven't really talked about it. 
You know, it's local cooks teaching local people. 
Around America, if we just look back now, there is plenty of wonderful things going on. 
When I was in Huntington, trying to get a few things to work when they weren't, I thought If I had a magic wand, what would I do? And I thought, You know what? 
I'd just love to be put in front of some of the most amazing movers and shakers in America. 
We are anonymous. We are legion. 
We are but the base of chaos. 
And they're pretty scary. 
You never know when they're going to attack next, who or what the consequences will be. 
There's a strong whiff of half-baked anarchism about them. 
But one thing is true: we are at the beginning of a mighty struggle for control of the Internet. 
Now this is a very complicated struggle. 
Instead, we prefer these really dazzling technological solutions, which cost a huge amount of money. 
But because they're a U.N. operation, maybe that's why governments and corporations are not that interested in them. 
Because it's a U.N. operation, of course, it lacks funding. 
Cybercriminals would go there to buy and sell stolen credit card details, to exchange information about new malware that was out there. 
The purchaser would send the administrative officer some dollars digitally, and the vendor would sell the stolen credit card details. 
Now I spoke to one of these Carders who we'll call RedBrigade -- although that wasn't even his proper nickname -- but I promised I wouldn't reveal who he was. 
And this man with a planetary-sized brain is now serving a 13-year sentence in California. 
And he has done path-breaking work on autism and confirmed, also for the authorities here, that Gary McKinnon -- who is wanted by the United States for hacking into the Pentagon -- suffers from Asperger's and a secondary condition of depression. 
How would someone get over that kind of fear that the hacker they hire might preserve that little teensy wormhole? 
I think to an extent, you have to understand that it's axiomatic among hackers that they do that. 
has about one-third the carbon footprint of the average suburban dweller, mostly because suburbanites drive a lot more, and living in detached buildings, you have that much more exterior surface to leak energy out of. 
Whether you love suburbia's leafy privacy or you hate its soulless commercial strips, there are reasons why it's important to retrofit. 
But is it practical? 
June Williamson and I have been researching this topic for over a decade, and we've found over 80 varied projects. 
That basically, the Boomers want to be able to age in place, and Gen Y would like to live an urban lifestyle, but most of their jobs will continue to be out in suburbia. 
Other malls have been re-inhabited as nursing homes, as universities, and as all variety of office space. 
We also found a lot of examples of dead big-box stores that have been converted into all sorts of community-serving uses as well -- lots of schools, lots of churches and lots of libraries like this one. 
This one is a little L-shaped strip shopping center in Phoenix, Arizona. 
Really all they did was they gave it a fresh coat of bright paint, a gourmet grocery, and they put up a restaurant in the old post office. 
Sometimes, it's all at once. 
When Metrorail expanded transit into the suburbs and opened a station nearby to this site, the owners decided to build a new parking deck and then insert on top of their surface lots a new Main Street, several apartments and condo buildings, while keeping the existing office buildings. 
So here's what it looks like. 
You can sort of see the funky new condo buildings in between the office buildings and the public space and the new Main Street. 
I think they really built an attractive place here and have just employed all-green construction. 
But it's also not really enough to just create pockets of walkability. 
So this is one that has been retrofitted in California. 
So there's a lot of great things, but I'd love to see more corridors getting retrofitting. 
Sometimes re-greening is really the better answer. 
There's also a burgeoning suburban farming movement -- sort of victory gardens meets the Internet. 
Now, retrofits are often accused of being examples of faux downtowns and instant urbanism, and not without reason; you don't get much more phony than an Astroturf town green. 
I have to say, these are very hybrid places. 
Or maybe it's because when I was a teenager back in the '50s, my uncle Henry -- having denounced the Ku Klux Klan and been bombed for his trouble and had crosses burned in his yard, living under death threat -- took his wife and children to Massachusetts for safety and went back to South Carolina to face down the Klan alone. 
Never mind the fact that they were slow to acknowledge they needed saving. 
I labored in that vineyard for a quarter century before making my way to a little kingdom of the just in upstate South Carolina, a Methodist-affiliated institution of higher learning called Wofford College. 
And there, Mr. Teszler began all over again and once again achieved immense success, especially after he invented the process for manufacturing a new fabric called double-knit. 
He got the same answer: You bring the best workers that you can find, and if they are good enough, I will hire them. 
Do you have any other questions? 
And into the slow, second movement, marked adagio religioso, he incorporated the sounds of birdsong that he heard outside his window in what he knew would be his last spring; he was imagining a future for her in which he would play no part. 
This defines the imagined futures of our fellow Hungarians -- Robicsek, Teszler and Bartok -- as it does my own. 
This is our task; we know it will be hard. 
Women go days, weeks, months, without looking at it. 
You're twisting your head up, arching your back, it's exhausting. 
OK, at first women were a little shy, a little reluctant to talk. 
Once they got going, you couldn't stop them. 
Vagina, vagina, vagina. It doesn't matter how many times you say the word, it never sounds like a word you want to say. 
I don't know that that would have been my life ambition. 
But I want to talk a little bit about happiness and the relationship to this whole vagina journey because it has been an extraordinary journey that began eight years ago. 
One woman took that energy and she said, I want to bring this wave, this energy, to college campuses, and so she took the play and she said, Let's use the play and have performances of the play once a year, where we can raise money to stop violence against women in local communities all around the world. 
And this is a very heady place. 
It's a body world, and the species really exists in the body, and I think there's a real significance in us attaching our bodies to our heads -- that that separation has created a divide that is often separating purpose from intent. 
When we met her three years ago, we said, What could V-Day do for you? 
Now, Mr. Alligator never did come, but the idea of Mr. Alligator coming actually saved my sanity and made it OK for me to keep going because I believed, in the distance, there would be someone coming to rescue me. 
They're like the Mercedes-Benz of the Rift Valley. 
And he'd show up obviously in a form that it took me a long time to understand, which is that when we give in the world what we want the most, we heal the broken part inside each of us. 
We can reconcile. 
We can do everything. 
My mother died in [a] gynecology complication, so I decided to become a gynecology specialist. 
Maybe I should become an historian, or maybe a reporter. 
She graduated in Russia also. 
I succeeded in my place. 
That's the best part. 
Our country has two exploration programs. 
We learned of Marshall Kay's geosynclinal cycle, which is a bunch of crap. 
Mostly discoveries made by accident. 
I believe in just enriching the economy. 
Alvin and Sea Cliff and Cyana, and all the major deep submersibles we have, which are about eight. 
The mid-ocean ridge runs around like the seam on a baseball. 
This is on a Mercator projection. 
But if you were to put it on an equal area projection, you'd see that the mid-ocean ridge covers 23 percent of the Earth's total surface area. 
This is what a real one looks like, on the Juan de Fuca Ridge. 
But more importantly, they discovered edifices down there that they did not understand. 
We found the Bismarck in 16,000 feet. We then found the Yorktown. 
And we stole recently a ship from the United States Navy. 
It comes online this summer, and it begins its journey of exploration. 
We have no idea what we're going to discover. 
And when you get a jaw drop, you can inform. 
This, I hope, will be a future engineer or a future scientist in the battle for truth. 
You must get them custom made -- special, humongous guitars. 
I thought narcissism meant you loved yourself. 
But I want to, though, explain how I came to design my own particular brand of comedy because I've been through so many different forms of it. 
I started with improvisation, in a particular form of improvisation called theater games, which had one rule, which I always thought was a great rule for an ethic for a society. 
But only two percent don't know the effect that the debacle in Argentina will have on the IMF's monetary policy --  seems a contradiction. 
So this subject-object thing, is part of something I'm very interested in because this is why, frankly, I believe in political correctness. 
Maybe too far. But you know -- I don't think that a person of color making fun of white people is the same thing as a white person making fun of people of color. 
There always had to be the butt of a joke. 
And then coming to this conference, I realized that most everybody here shared those same qualities because really what trickster is is an agent of change. 
I hope that's my agent, because you aren't paying me anything. 
And he said that I had to show more respect because it took up to 18 years to learn how to do mime properly. 
Huh? Huh? What? Can't hear you. 
But here's how I think I like to make change, and that is in making connections. 
And didn't that feel good? 
And now we're being penetrated. 
I still have a way to go. 
And what I hope to do, when I make these connections, is short circuit people's thinking. 
I like to think of what I do as a probability wave. 
And thank you for inviting me into it. 
Can we run that, Andrew? 
I would propose, therefore, that if we took 10 billion dollars from that 2.13 trillion dollar budget -- which is two one hundredths of that budget -- and we doled out a billion dollars to each one of these problems I'm going to talk to you about, the vast majority could be solved, and the rest we could deal with. So, I hope you find this both fascinating -- I'm fascinated by this kind of stuff, I gotta admit -- to me these are Richard's cockroaches. 
We live in an incredible age of modern medicine. 
We are all much healthier than we were 20 years ago. 
Soon, genetic breakthroughs and even better medicine are going to allow us to think of 100 as a normal lifespan. 
We don't really have mental health insurance in this country, and it's --  -- it's really a crime. 
So, what are the solutions to this?  
Thank God you can all read! 
Many other ecosystems on Earth are in real, real danger. 
They expect them to evaporate.  
This stuff was supposed to only be feed for animals in the United States, and it got into the human food supply, and somebody should've figured out that it would get in the human food supply very easily. 
This brings back a skepticism that has gone away recently, that superweeds and superpests could spread around the world, from biotechnology, that literally could destroy the world's food supply in very short order. 
Believe it or not, this happens every few hundred thousand years, and has happened many times in our history. 
But what happens, as this occurs, is that we lose our magnetic field around the Earth over the period of about 100 years, and that means that all these cosmic rays and particles that are to come streaming at us from the sun, that this field protects us from, are -- well, basically, we're gonna fry.  
So, maybe we're in the throes of it. 
There's a flip side to it. In studying stars like our Sun, we've found that they go through periods of diminishment, when their total amount of energy that's expelled from them goes down by maybe one percent. 
We've all learned what -- the kind of panic that can occur when an old disease rears its head, like anthrax. 
Again, we gotta think about being a colonizing race. 
That's a mistake that could literally cost us our future. 
And he scans across the ocean, and he looks at the sky. 
Now I don't expect all of you to see all the details here, but what I want you to see is this is about 10 percent of the processes that operate within the oceans almost continuously, and have for the last 4 billion years. 
This is very, very important because this is the system, this is the crucible, out of which life on the planet came, and it's now time for us to understand it. 
All right, let's talk about another perspective on the importance of the oceans. 
Seconds after this video was taken, people in Beijing, people in Sydney, people in Amsterdam, people in Washington D.C. were watching this. 
I won't talk a lot about most of them right here, but the one on the west coast, that's in the box, is called the regional scale nodes. 
This is going to be much more powerful than having a single ship in a single location, then move to a new location. 
Robotics systems are just incredible these days, absolutely incredible. 
What are the troops? The troops are the autonomous vehicles, of course. 
They eject it to the surface where it floats, and it is picked up by an autonomous airplane, and it's brought back to the laboratory within 24 hours of the eruption. 
A laboratory: many of you heard what happened on 9/7. 
We could do work on the sea floor that would be stunning, and it would be on live TV, if we have interesting things to show. 
So we can bring an entirely new telepresence to the world, throughout the ocean. 
It's going to be amazing. 
He won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1948. 
But it is a story of effort and struggle against improbabilities. 
These are the dimensions that I like to work with. 
It's something very personal. 
It's not, perhaps, the dimensions appreciated by art critics or architecture critics or city planners. 
And today we have a kind of evangelical pessimism all around us. 
I have never been a fan of the neutral. 
Expressive spaces are not spaces that simply confirm what we already know. 
Life is not just an anesthetic to make us smile, but to reach out across the abyss of history, to places we have never been, and would have perhaps been, had we not been so lucky. 
Radical, what does it mean? It's something which is rooted, and something which is rooted deep in a tradition. 
It's not something that has a good ending or a bad ending. 
Therefore I believe it should not be cool. 
Listening to all of you, the complexity of thought, the complexity of layers of meaning is overwhelming. 
The political is not an enemy of architecture. 
So the unexpected is always unexpected. 
So not the habitual architecture that instills in us the false sort of stability, but an architecture that is full of tension, an architecture that goes beyond itself to reach a human soul and a human heart, and that breaks out of the shackles of habits. 
What is raw? The raw, I would say is the naked experience, untouched by luxury, untouched by expensive materials, untouched by the kind of refinement that we associate with high culture. 
So that is indeed what is memory. 
And it's not only our memory, but those who remember us, which means that architecture is not mute. 
You know it costs a lot of money and so on, but yes, it should not play it safe. 
It's about carving out a space for trees. 
And yet, in all its messiness, in all its difficulties, I would not have liked somebody to say, This is the tabula rasa, mister architect -- do whatever you want. 
And it is about the dirty word compromise. Compromise is not bad. 
It's difficult. 2011, 2013. Freedom Tower, the memorial. 
Daniel Libeskind: Look. We have to cure ourselves of the notion that we are authoritarian, that we can determine everything that happens. 
Namibia has got 2.1 million people, but it is only twice the size of California. 
Most people that are following the story of Angelina Jolie and Brad Pitt will know where Namibia is. 
You might wonder, why are you wearing these Western clothes? 
Boy, if you are looking after our livestock and you see a cheetah eating our goat -- cheetah is very nervous -- just walk up to it. 
But then he said, Boy, if you run into a lion, don't move. 
We lived under apartheid regime. 
And then, in the same year, we almost lost everything. 
With independence, the whole approach of community getting involved was embraced by our new government. 
Three things that actually help to build on this foundation: The very first one is honoring of tradition and being open to new ideas. 
And at this sacred fire, the spirit of our ancestors speak through the headman and advise us where to get water, where to get grazings, and where to go and hunt. 
Transporting rhinos using helicopters I think is much easier than talking through a spirit that you can't see, isn't it? 
The other partners that we have got is business communities. 
And so far, with the support of World Wildlife Fund, we've been able to scale up the very small programs to national programs today. 
Namibia ... or Sesfontein was no more an isolated village somewhere, hidden away in Namibia. 
What started as very small, community rangers getting community involved, has now grown into something that we call conservancies. 
In 2008, conservancy generated 5.7 million dollars. 
This is our new economy -- an economy based on the respect of our natural resources. 
You know that Africa is being affected by these viruses. 
There is great confusion when the two look at each other. 
I'm fascinated by the beauty of it, the mutability of it, the malleability of it, and the fabulous shapes in which it can carve itself. 
That's outside Antarctica. 
It's a big undertaking. I stand here before you tonight as an ambassador for my whole team. 
There's a lot of people working on this right now. 
If everybody in the developed world understood this graph, and emblazoned it on the inside of their foreheads, there would be no further societal argument about climate change because this is the story that counts. 
This is what one of our cameras saw over the course of a few months. 
That's the retreat of this glacier. 
Geologic process in action here. 
Greenland took a little while to start reacting to the warming climate of the past century, but it really started galloping along about 20 years ago. 
Helicopter in front of the calving face for scale, quickly dwarfed. 
It's flowing out to the Atlantic Ocean on the left. 
We just downloaded these pictures a couple weeks ago, as you can see. June 25th, monster calving events happened. 
Huge icebergs rolling over. 
So an illustration again, gives you a feeling for scale. 
This is a terrific, terrific call to arms to do the right thing for ourselves and for the future. 
Understanding all of this enables us to shift our perception of seafood away from a commodity to an opportunity to restore our ecosystem. 
Great for fishermen. Lots of money. Supporting local economies. 
So the first thing about this idea of restorative seafood is that it really takes into account our needs. 
And the best part is all of those ingredients are available to every family at the neighborhood Walmart. 
Forget nuclear holocaust; it's the fork that we have to worry about. 
People started buying appetizers and salads, because they knew they weren't going to fill up on the entrees alone. 
People spent more time engaging in their meals, engaging with each other over their meals. 
They got healthier. I made more money. 
I get sick when I go to steakhouses. 
The punch line? 
And this is a song medley I put together --  Did you ever notice that four in the morning has become some sort of meme or shorthand? 
A time for plotting to whack the chief of police, like in this classic scene from The Godfather. 
It works a little something like -- this is a recent Google search for four in the morning. 
Coincidence to me has a much simpler metric. 
Herbert Powell: Sure, that's what he's paid for. 
And folks, you can buy a copy of Bill Clinton's My Life from the bookstore here at TED. 
By his own writing, this man was either asleep, at a prayer meeting with Al and Tipper or learning how to launch a nuclear missile out of a suitcase. 
And once we get involved in the therapeutic decisions, again either personally or with our loved ones and family members, we also very quickly learn the benefits, the trade-offs and the limitations of these tools. 
We can all picture astronauts in space. 
And in that space station we have the genetic material, the chromosomes, within a nucleus. 
And when that cellular space station is within the electric field, it acts on those highly charged proteins and aligns them. 
What we saw in that trial is that that the life expectancies of both groups -- so the chemotherapy treated group and the Tumor Treating Field group -- was the same. 
Importantly, it was the first time ever that the FDA included in their approval of an oncology treatment a quality of life claim. 
You can see that the black regions in the upper right quadrant are the areas where he had surgery. 
At this point, he was told by his doctors that he had about 3 months to live. 
First of all, these electrodes are noninvasive. 
There's none of what is called the chemo head. 
It's a medical device; it works when it's on. 
It's now five years since Robert's diagnosis, and he's alive, but importantly, he's healthy and he's at work. 
I'm going to let him, in this very short clip, describe his impressions of the therapy in his own words. 
I'm going to show you another clip of a woman named Lydia. 
She underwent four different regimes of chemotherapy over two years, none of which had an effect. 
Her cancer continued to grow. 
She's interacting with her kids and her grand kids. 
It's only the beginning. 
And I firmly believe that in the next 10 years Tumor Treating Fields will be a weapon available to doctors and patients for all of these most-difficult-to-treat solid tumors. 
And the water will go where it should go. 
And people made their house, and the water storage tanks. 
This is near Jaipur. This is called the Jaigarh Fort. 
It can break sometimes. 
It can envy many municipalities, the color, the taste, the purity of this water. 
And people started renovating their own structures. 
Such a limited rainfall, and highest colorful life flourished in these areas. 
But it is invisible. 
And then they will come and worship this pond, pay respect, their gratitude. 
And perhaps they knew the future also. 
How they maintain them? 
Don't spit, don't do anything wrong, so that the clean water can be collected. 
If you climb these three, six steps you will find something very nice. 
They say that a picture is worth a thousand words, so we can say a thousand words right now, an another thousand words. 
There were no English medium schools at that time, even no Hindi schools, [unclear] schools. 
but not to create the engineering colleges. 
So, you can find through your Jeep, a camel, and a cart. 
Thank you very much. 
So, the ponds, the open bodies, are everywhere, right from Sri Lanka to Kashmir, and in other parts also. 
And these [unclear], which stored water, there are two type of things. 
It was never popular with many political leaders, especially those in the United States who somehow thought that new media would be able to do what missiles couldn't. 
And they are building what I call the Spinternet. 
And police said that it happened because he was playing hide and seek, which is elude the cat in Chinese slang, with other inmates and hit his head against the wall, which was not an explanation which sat well with many Chinese bloggers. 
So they immediately began posting a lot of critical comments. 
And this actually fits with another interesting theory about what's happening in authoritarian states and in their cyberspace. 
And first it's quite simple. 
So from this perspective, having blogs and wikis produce knowledge has been great. 
So inviting people to all sorts of public forums, having them participate in decision making, it's actually great. 
And it's great simply because they can gather open source intelligence. 
I mean KGB, and not just KGB, used to torture in order to actually get this data. 
Now it's all available online. 
So what should we do about it? 
Why are you crying? 
No, the boy said to me -- the boy said to me, It would destroy me. 
And he did spend a lot of time up to no good. 
His father wasn't on the set. 
We all looked up to him. 
She's what I know today to be mentally ill, higher-functioning at times than others. 
So when I go in the room, I close the door. 
Now I say this all with remorse, and I was feeling a tremendous amount of remorse at that time, but I was conflicted, because, while I was feeling remorse, I was excited, because I didn't get caught. 
I need you working with me and me working with you on how we raise our sons and teach them to be men -- that it's okay to not be dominating, that it's okay to have feelings and emotions, that it's okay to promote equality, that it's okay to have women who are just friends and that's it, that it's okay to be whole, that my liberation as a man is tied to your liberation as a woman.  
Indeed, what worries me is the entire notion of world leadership seems to me terribly archaic. 
It's redolent of James Bond movies and Kipling ballads. 
And in the information era we all live in today, what we might call the TED age, I'd say that countries are increasingly being judged by a global public that's been fed on an incessant diet of Internet news, of televised images, of cellphone videos, of email gossip. 
We've been selling 15 million cellphones a month. 
They had to suspend functions at 8:30. 
And they scrawled on the windshield in a reference to the show's heroine, Tulsi Zindabad: Long live Tulsi. 
In fact, legend has is that when Doubting Thomas, the Apostle, Saint Thomas, landed on the shores of Kerala, my home state, somewhere around 52 A.D., he was welcomed on shore by a flute-playing Jewish girl. 
But, the fact is that the last elections, five years ago, gave the world extraordinary phenomenon of an election being won by a woman political leader of Italian origin and Roman Catholic faith, Sonia Gandhi, who then made way for a Sikh, Mohan Singh, to be sworn in as Prime Minister by a Muslim, President Abdul Kalam, in a country 81 percent Hindu. 
All the others have been all those three. 
In fact, you can't even take the name of the country for granted, because the name India comes from the river Indus, which flows in Pakistan. 
It's the idea of an ever-ever-land, emerging from an ancient civilization, united by a shared history, but sustained, above all, by pluralist democracy. 
Now, that is the India that is emerging into the 21st century. 
And, I mean, the world apparently is running out too. 
And trying to attach this to things that were themselves attached to certain specific target zones, bacteria that we don't like. 
So you can find a little feature on a bacterium that you don't like, like Staphylococcus -- I don't like it in particular, because it killed a professor friend of mine last year. 
So this was pretty shocking to me, that we could do this. 
And there's the very important thing there: If you want to survive the cold, you ought to be suspended. Right? 
The highest concentration is in our brains. 
And so, we wanted to find out might we be able to use hydrogen sulfide in the presence of cold, and we wanted to see whether we could reproduce this skier in a mammal. 
So, we wondered: Can we do anything useful with this capacity to control metabolic flexibility? 
We ought to be able to lower supply to unprecedented low levels without killing the animal. 
And this company, the first thing it did was make a liquid formulation of hydrogen sulfide an injectable form that we could put in and send it out to physician scientists all over the world who work on models of critical care medicine, and the results are incredibly positive. 
And I should say that the concentrations of hydrogen sulfide required to get this benefit are low, incredibly low. 
You don't want to be gorking people out just to save them, it's really confusing. 
Im going around the world giving talks about Darwin, and usually what Im talking about is Darwins strange inversion of reasoning. 
Exactly. Exactly. And it is a strange inversion. 
If you looked at glucose molecules till you were blind, you wouldnt see why they tasted sweet. 
And its a good thing that there isnt, because if there were, then Mother Nature would have a problem: How on earth do you get chimps to mate? 
What we see with, say, chocolate cake is its a supernormal stimulus to tweak our design wiring. 
Youve got 30 seconds, youd better be fast. 
Yes, lots of laughter. Yeah, exactly. 
So we might have a wild idea, but were afraid to share it with anybody else. 
They just quite happily show their masterpiece to whoever wants to look at it. 
Now, that wasnt just self-indulgence. 
It takes more than decor, but I think weve all seen that creative companies do often have symbols in the workplace that remind people to be playful, and that its a permissive environment. 
But why is it important? 
We use it in a pretty pragmatic way, to be honest. 
And you know, the more creative of them might get to a really interesting example. 
So another one of Bob McKims favorite exercises is called the 30 Circles Test. 
Okay. Put down your pencils, as they say. 
15? 20? Anybody get all 30? 
I just wanted you to fill in as many circles as possible. 
We stop ourselves from doing things. 
I think the Eameses are wonderful examples of experimentation. 
They went from designing splints for wounded soldiers coming out of World War II and the Korean War, I think, and from this experiment they moved on to chairs. 
When play is about building a tower out of blocks, the kid begins to learn a lot about towers. 
And as they repeatedly knock it down and start again, learning is happening as a sort of by-product of play. 
So, they learned their way to that by building prototypes. 
And all of a sudden a productive conversation was happening about design around a tangible object. 
The prototyping carts, filled with colored paper and Play-Doh and glue sticks and stuff -- I mean, they do have a bit of a kindergarten feel to them. 
But by giving project teams and the clients who theyre working with permission to think with their hands, quite complex ideas can spring into life and go right through to execution much more easily. 
Were doing the same thing as designers. 
So, remember the sketching task we did at the beginning? 
As designers, we need to be able to transition in and out of play also. 
And it doesn't take long to go downhill. 
And I got distracted by it. 
And suddenly I was on the phone to my stockbroker and my real estate agent, when I should have been talking to my clients. 
My partner and I, Thom, we had to let all our employees go. 
Because with no employees, there was nobody for me to manage. 
And I grew up in this little farming town in northern Nevada. 
Britlin was so innocent and so sweet, and her voice was so pure. 
And I had this idea: if I could get 50 people to all do this same thing, sing their parts -- soprano, alto, tenor and bass -- wherever they were in the world, post their videos to YouTube, we could cut it all together and create a virtual choir. 
And I sent out this call to singers. 
And I made free the download of the music to a piece that I had written in the year 2000 called Lux Aurumque, which means light and gold. 
This is Evangelina Etienne  from Massachusetts. 
I was told later, and also by lots of singers who were involved in this, that they sometimes recorded 50 or 60 different takes until they got just the right take -- they uploaded it. 
He scrubbed the audio. 
And then we posted this video to YouTube about a year and a half ago. 
We had a million hits in the first month and got a lot of attention for it. 
And there were 900 people involved in that. 
And we also put a page on Facebook for the singers to upload their testimonials, what it was like for them, their experience singing it. 
My sister and I used to sing in choirs together constantly. 
Me too. 
It is a dream come true to be part of this choir, as I've never been part of one. 
And the second is that people seem to be experiencing an actual connection. 
It wasn't a virtual choir. 
But, I know myself too, I feel this virtual esprit de corps, if you will, with all of them. 
This is a recording I made of a mantis shrimp that's found off the coast of California. 
And mantis shrimp are called mantis shrimp after the praying mantises, which also have a fast feeding appendage. And I started to think, well, maybe it will be interesting, while listening to their sounds, to figure out how these animals generate very fast feeding strikes. 
So we got this incredible video system. It's very new technology -- it just came out about a year ago -- that allows you to film at extremely high speeds in low light. 
And as you'll notice, it's still pretty gosh darn fast slowed down 333 times. It's an incredibly powerful movement. 
So what we calculated was that the limbs were moving at the peak speed ranging from 10 meters per second all the way up to 23 meters per second. 
It takes a long time for the muscle to contract, and a very short time for the limb to fly out. 
There needs to be some kind of spring-loaded mechanism in order to generate the amount of force that we observe, and the speed that we observe, and the output of the system. 
The saddle-shaped structure is also known as a hyperbolic paraboloid surface, or an anticlastic surface. 
In biological systems it's important not to have a whole lot of extra material requirements for building it. 
And so this is just a regular video of the animal just smashing the heck out of this load cell. 
And again, I think this will be a world record. 
And what I'd like you to do in this shot is keep your eye on this, on the surface of the load cell, as the limb comes flying through. 
People have been struggling for years to try and design a very fast rotating boat propeller that doesn't cavitate and literally wear away the metal and put holes in it, just like these pictures show. 
In fact, you might have even seen some cavitation going up the edge of the limb. 
Very, very convenient solution to that particular problem. 
And there's actually a spectacular colored dot in the center of the saddles of many species of stomatopods. 
And this is quite interesting, to find evolutionary origins of visual signals on what's really, in all species, their spring. 
And so I'm very curious about whether those colored dots in the center of the saddles are conveying some kind of information about their ability to strike, or their strike force, and something about the time period in the molting cycle. 
We still have one foot in the dark ages. 
T.S. Eliot really said it for me -- and this should give you goose bumps: we shall not cease from exploration and the end of our exploring shall be to return where we started and know the place for the first time. 
Its a thin film, two-dimensional existence. 
And if you hefted those two things you might find that the relative scale of those is 20 to 1. 
It actually is a very good working sub -- thats what it was designed for. 
A seat works in a two-dimensional world, where gravity blasts down on that seat, OK? 
Most of life on earth is in that inner atmosphere. 
This is a three-dimensional machine. 
This is mans first attempt at flying underwater. 
Chris asked us to show stuff that hasnt been shown before. 
Im trying to do everything very gently. 
This is the first flying machine. This was the first prototype. 
Therere no silly buoyancy tanks -- its permanently, positively buoyant. 
Shes just a few inches off the top of my head. 
And so, how I see my work contributing is sort of trying to literally re-imagine these connections and physically rebuild them. 
So the era of big infrastructure is over. 
So, albeit a very small creature and very modest, this creature is incredible, because it can agglomerate into these mega-reef structures. 
But you can see, even just intuit, from this map, that the harbor has dredged and flattened, and went from a rich, three-dimensional mosaic to flat muck in really a matter of years. 
Now the Gowanus is particularly smelly -- I will admit it. 
When we started this project, one of the core ideas was to look back in history and try to understand what was there. 
We also learned at this time that you could eat an oyster about the size of a dinner plate in the Gowanus Canal itself. 
It accepts algae and detritus in one end, and through this beautiful, glamorous set of stomach organs, out the other end comes cleaner water. 
Basically, New York was built on the backs of oystermen, and our streets were literally built over oyster shells. 
What is fuzzy rope, you ask? 
So we imagine that we would actually potentially even host a bake sale to start our new project. 
So get your Tevas on. 
And then those spat are then seeded. 
And also showing oyster gardening for the community along its edges. 
And finally, how much fun it would be to watch the flupsy parade and cheer on the oyster spats as they go down to the reef. 
So, sorry -- it just feels like I should be doing stand-up up here because of the setting. 
Because if we get it out of the streets, it'll smell much better, and -- oh right, we drink from the river. 
And he'd made the case in a number of papers and done a number of studies, but nothing had really stuck. 
You can't really see it in this map, but this is the map that becomes the central focus in the second half of my book. 
So it was this incredibly terrifying event. 
Just an extraordinary, terrifying scene. 
And eventually Snow made a map of the outbreak. 
And he thought about representing that as a kind of a table of statistics of people living in different neighborhoods, people who hadn't, you know, percentages of people who hadn't, but eventually he hit upon the idea that what he needed was something that you could see. 
And so, with the help of this map, and with the help of more evangelizing that he did over the next few years and that Whitehead did, eventually, actually, the authorities slowly started to come around. 
We don't worry that New York City is going to collapse in on itself quite the way that, you know, Rome did, and be 10 percent of its size in 100 years or 200 years. 
His whole monastery was thrown into prison at the time of the uprising, when the Dalai Lama had to leave Tibet. 
And it just so happened, on the fifth week, there was a public teaching by the Dalai Lama. 
I interview and do portraits. 
So this is our icon to non-violence in our world -- one of our living icons. 
This is Mengatoue. 
He's the shaman of the Huaorani, and he said to us, you know, I'm an older man now; I'm getting tired, you know; I'm tired of spearing these oil workers. 
And this kid lived in the village -- he wasn't there at the time -- and this is the little movie he put together about that. 
It's a question of what's the continuity? 
We draw this set of nested spheres cut away so you see it. 
So if you take a picture of what's going on, it's 10 years ago. 
And we go through a period of accelerating expansion, and the universe expands and cools until it gets to the point where it becomes transparent, then to the Dark Ages, and then the first stars turn on, and they evolve into galaxies, and then later they get to the more expansive galaxies. 
I always think of space-time as being the real substance of space, and the galaxies and the stars just like the foam on the ocean. 
And just put radially they're going out that way. 
What happens is, you take pictures as the Earth rotates, you get a fan across the sky. 
Do you see the fan-like scans made across the sky? 
So again, you can see the extension of this Great Wall of galaxies showing up here. 
And we had to add one more thing to make the universe come out right. 
So I'll show you the next movie. 
We're going to keep zooming in. OK. 
And so I forgot to tell you the scale. 
So it takes light three billion years to travel over that distance. 
There's a very simple fluid to begin with. 
And so you know when you first saw this picture, it didn't mean quite so much to you. 
Here you're looking across one percent of the volume of the visible universe and you're seeing billions of galaxies, right, and nodes, but you realize they're not even the main structure. 
And we're going to fly around, and we'll fly around, and you'll see occasionally a couple of filaments intersect, and you get a large cluster of galaxies. 
So the question is, how hard would it be to assemble this, right? 
And so here we are. 
This is how, if you took billions of years to go around, it might look to you, right? 
And if you could see invisible matter, too. 
We're going to start and realize that the entire visible universe, everything we can see in every direction with the Hubble Space Telescope plus our other instruments, was once in a region that was smaller than an atom. 
So I'm going to show you one that can be run on a desktop in two days in the next picture. 
And at that point, the universe mysteriously starts accelerating its expansion and cuts off the formation of larger-scale structure. 
The fact is that we're living longer. 
It really involves many different areas. 
And that's where the field is today. 
We then grow the cells outside the body, take the scaffold, coat the scaffold with the cells -- the patient's own cells, two different cell types. 
So the strategy here is -- this is actually a CT scan, an X-ray -- and we go layer by layer, using computerized morphometric imaging analysis and 3D reconstruction to get right down to those patient's own kidneys. 
And this is actually a new technology we're working on now. 
I was able to do more things. 
Most of my professors were all for it, and they said, Bring pictures and show me the clips online, and I'm happy for you. 
'I failed!' He cried. 
One was -- never be late. Never be late. 
That's what he tried to teach me and my brothers at one time. 
He spelled Moriarty with only one 'i'. 
You and I know deeper down, there's always a chance to win the crown. 
Giving all, it seems to me, is not so far from victory. 
Don't whine. Don't complain. Don't make excuses. 
Not necessary to what you would want them to be, but they will be about what they should, and only you will know whether you can do that. 
I mention in my book, They Call Me Coach. 
So they had qualities that -- they came close to -- as close to reaching possibly their full potential as any players I ever had. 
So in other words, what's happening here is that Swaptree solves my carrying company's sugar rush problem, a problem the economists call the coincidence of wants, in approximately 60 seconds. 
So what's happening here? 
We're bartering, trading, swapping, sharing, but they're being reinvented into dynamic and appealing forms. 
Over the next minute, you're going to see a bit like a conceptual fireworks display of all the dots that went on in my head. 
I mean, we're monkeys, and we're born and bred to share and cooperate. 
And we were doing so for thousands of years, whether it's when we hunted in packs, or farmed in cooperatives, before this big system called hyper-consumption came along and we built these fences and created out own little fiefdoms. 
They're growing up sharing -- files, video games, knowledge. 
Thomas Friedman is one of my favorite New York Times columnists, and he poignantly commented that 2008 is when we hit a wall, when Mother Nature and the market both said, No more. 
The second is collaborative lifestyles. 
Just think of libraries and laundrettes. 
They are what I consider to be the cities of tomorrow, the new urban world. 
Now, why do I say that? 
After we finished, Armstrong straightened his tie, put on a wool sports jacket, and we headed out into the glare. 
I thought they might be playing King of the Hill, but I was wrong. 
'It's a simple life, but nobody is restricting you. 
Beer is a very important thing in Brazil. 
This here, on the right-hand side, is what's called a -- if you look at the fine print under the awning -- it's a hotel. 
And the second aspect is that once you have 2,000 people in the community, you can petition the government to be recognized as a legal sub-municipality. 
My family moved; we're nomads. 
But these two people worked something out. 
Right now, those and other neurologic diseases -- for which we have no cure or prevention -- cost about a third of a trillion dollars a year. 
It will be well over a trillion dollars by 2050. 
And the Avian Flu is also not a good idea. 
You should also keep your blood pressure down, because chronic high blood pressure is the biggest single risk factor for Alzheimers disease. 
And of course, when it comes to cognitive effects, use it or lose it applies, so you want to stay mentally stimulated. 
And one of the first things that I started to investigate was the history of the name of technology. 
And obviously, technology had existed before then, but we weren't aware of it, and so it was sort of an awakening of this force in our life. 
And that's the very first use of the word. 
Even the hunter-gatherers used some elementary tools. 
So, climate change is not a new thing. 
And flowers and plants are the same thing, extended, and technology is basically an extension of life. 
And the energy density that we see in the greatest of anywhere in the universe is actually in a PC chip. 
And there are things moving towards greater complexity, moving towards greater diversity, moving towards greater specialization, sentience, ubiquity and most important, evolvability: Those very same things are also present in technology. 
He could buy things that King Henry, in all his wealth, could never buy. 
And what I mean by that is that we find a new job for it. 
So, better ideas is really -- always the response to technology that we don't like is basically, better technology. 
And so, every technology is sort of a creative force looking for the right job. 
And we are aware of the price. 
Great movement that is starting billions of years ago is moving through us and it continues to go, and our choice, so to speak, in technology, is really to align ourselves with this force much greater than ourselves. 
I really appreciate your attention today. Thank you. 
Neil and I were sitting there comparing how little we've slept in anticipation for this. I've never been so nervous -- and I do this when I'm nervous, I just realized.  
In the Brooklyn neighborhood that I lived in, Park Slope, there are a lot of writers -- it's like a very high per capita ratio of writers to normal people. 
So when I moved back to San Francisco, we rented this building. 
So we thought, We'll have all these writers and editors and everybody -- sort of a writing community -- coming into the office every day anyway, why don't we just open up the front of the building for students to come in there after school, get extra help on their written homework, so you have basically no border between these two communities? 
And we looked around and somebody else said, Well, you should sell supplies to the working buccaneer.  
This is replacement eyes in case you lose one. 
While you're reading the sign, we pull a rope behind the counter and eight mop heads drop on your head. 
It became mop heads. And this is the fish theater, which is just a saltwater tank with three seats, and then right behind it we set up this space, which was the tutoring center. 
And we thought, Oh, they're going to storm the gates, they're gonna love it. And they didn't. 
You know, it's been proven that 35 to 40 hours a year with one-on-one attention, a student can get one grade level higher. 
But there was something psychological happening there that was just a little bit different. 
They're allowed to go home at 5:30 p.m., enjoy their family, enjoy other hobbies, get outside, play. 
Then we said, Well, what are we going to do with the space during the day, because it has to be used before 2:30 p.m.? 
So this is one of the books that they do. 
So, meanwhile, there's an adult in the back typing this up, taking it completely seriously, which blows their mind. 
It's right off the library. And there we serve all 529 kids in this middle school. 
You can see Amy Tan sponsored the next one, I Might Get Somewhere. 
We sell all the student books. 
They would say, What is this? 
So the store actually did really well. 
This is Sam Potts' great design that did this. 
This is a little vault -- you have to put your product in there, it goes up an electric lift and then the guy behind the counter tells you that you have to recite the vow of heroism, which you do, if you want to buy anything. And it limits, really, their sales. 
So then, the secret door -- this is one of the shelves you don't see when you walk in, but it slowly opens. 
This is one of the students, Khaled Hamdan. 
Came in. Got this concentrated attention. 
I'm going to switch to we, and not I, hope: We hope that the attendees of this conference will usher in a new era of participation in our public schools. 
We hope that you will take the lead in partnering your innovative spirit and expertise with that of innovative educators in your community. 
Hot Studio did a great job in a very tight deadline. So, visit the site. 
I've been a priest in the Church for 20 years. 
Do we really believe that God is the kind of male boss that we've been presenting in our worship and in our liturgies over all these years? 
Suggesting that God expresses Himself or Herself through powerlessness, rather than power. 
Acknowledging that God is unknown and unknowable by definition. 
And this is what I said. 
And we want an explanation from God. 
For hundreds of years, the prevailing orthodoxy, the accepted truth, was that God the Father, the Creator, is unchanging and therefore by definition cannot feel pain or sadness. 
And the devastating events of the 20th century have forced people to question the cold, unfeeling God. 
Who is God in all this? 
Do we have a local God who can do little things like parking spaces, but not big things like 500 mile-per-hour waves? 
That's just not acceptable to intelligent Christians, and we must acknowledge it. 
You probably heard some of them: the man who surfed the wave, the teenage girl who recognized the danger because she had just been learning about tsunamis at school. 
If we believe something like this, we must let go of the puppet-master completely, take our leave of the almighty controller, abandon traditional models. 
Maybe God isn't an agent like all of us are agents. 
The people knew their God by His mighty acts. 
In the incredible intricacy and magnificence of the natural world. 
In the end, we have to say, I don't know. 
To have faith in this God would be more like trusting an essential benevolence in the universe, and less like believing a system of doctrinal statements. 
And how would one deepen such a faith? 
But in the end, the only thing I could say for sure was, I don't know, and that just might be the most profoundly religious statement of all. 
It was deep at night. 
And I kept on staring at it until it disappeared. 
This is not a story of a nameless survivor of war, and nameless refugees, whose stereotypical images we see in our newspapers and our TV with tattered clothes, dirty face, scared eyes. 
War, a friend of mine said, is not about sound at all. 
It is actually about silence, the silence of humanity. 
I have since left Iraq and founded a group called Women for Women International that ends up working with women survivors of wars. 
She said, But it's not fair, because there is only one life, and there should only be one death. 
Ninety percent of modern war casualties are civilians. 
How interesting. 
There is a side that is led by men, and there is a side that is led by women. 
There is no way we can talk about the building of stability if we don't start investing in women and girls. 
She got into Women for Women International's program. 
To start with, these women that I told you about are dancing and singing every single day, and if they can, who are we not to dance? 
By accepting this dichotomy, whether it's tongue-in-cheek, when we attempt to accommodate it in our world, and we try to build our foundation for the world, we're messing up the future, because, who wants to be uncreative? 
Now I grew up in the '60s and I'll admit it, actually, my childhood spanned the '60s, and I was a wannabe hippie and I always resented the fact that I wasn't really old enough to be a hippie. 
And I know there are people here, the younger generation who want to be hippies, but people talk about the '60s all the time, and they talk about the anarchy that was there, but when I think about the '60s, what I took away from it was that there was hope for the future. 
You see, I always assumed I would go into space, because I followed all of this, but I also loved the arts and sciences. 
Now, my mother helped me figure that one out.  
But when I went into space, when I went into space I carried a number of things up with me. I carried a poster by Alvin Ailey, which you can figure out now, I love the dance company. 
And yeah, sub-atomic physics is deconstructive. You literally try to tear atoms apart to understand what's inside of them. But sculpture, from what I understand from great sculptors, is deconstructive, because you see a piece and you remove what doesn't need to be there. 
It's the universe, as experienced by everyone, and the arts manifest our desire, our attempt to share or influence others through experiences that are peculiar to us as individuals. 
Do you know these books, these such and such For Dummies? 
But I was looking online at Amazon.com for other books like this. 
There's a sort of business model around being stupid in some sense. 
I was in Milan last week, for the Italian launch. 
So it was traumatizing, actually. 
Modernism means white box, and it's a perfect white box. 
I have a default title as a father of a bunch of daughters. 
As a child, we used to wake up at 1 a.m. and work till 6 p.m., six days a week. 
Thank you. 
But the Media Lab is an interesting place, and it's important to me because as a student, I was a computer science undergrad, and I discovered design later on in my life. 
And there was this person, Muriel Cooper. 
It was the best advice I ever got. So I went to art school, because of her. 
I think that the mentors that we all meet sort of humanize us. 
So, if you sort of compare that, like this, you'll see that computer versus human -- I've been tracking this for the last year -- computer versus human over the last year has changed. 
I spent my entire early career making complex stuff. 
Lots of complex stuff. 
This is a floral theme calendar in 1997, and this is a firework calendar. So, you launch the number into space, because the Japanese believe that when you see fireworks, you're cooler for some reason. 
I've been lucky to have been there before people made these kind of things, and so I made all this kind of stuff that messes with your eyes. 
And eye meat is something different, something more fibrous, something more powerful, perhaps. But what could that be, eye meat? 
So, I went back to the computer, and I bought five large fries, and scanned them all. And I was looking for some kind of food theme, and I wrote some software to automatically lay out french-fry images. 
And also, as a child, I was the fattest kid in class, so I used to love Cheetos. Oh, I love Cheetos, yummy. 
I discovered that Cheetos are good, expressive material. 
It's a strange business model. I can come into work everyday and staple five pieces of paper and just stare at it with my latte. 
In Japan, they say that sushi is challenging. 
This book I wrote because I want to figure out life. 
He's an expert in aging. This horizontal axis is how old you are -- twelve years old, twenty-four years old, seventy-four, ninety-six years old -- and this is some medical data. So, brain strength increases up to 60, and then after 60, it sort of goes down. Kind of depressing in a way. 
Your social responsibility is very interesting. 
How dare we be optimistic? 
But, as important as it is to change the lightbulbs, it is more important to change the laws. 
And there are lots of those. But the climate crisis is the rare but all-important global, or strategic, conflict. 
Greenland remains. Twenty-eight years ago, this is what the polar ice cap -- the North Polar ice cap -- looked like at the end of the summer, at the fall equinox. 
This last fall, I went to the Snow and Ice Data Center in Boulder, Colorado, and talked to the researchers here in Monterey at the Naval Postgraduate Laboratory. 
The North Polar ice cap is the same size geographically -- doesn't look quite the same size -- but it is exactly the same size as the United States, minus an area roughly equal to the state of Arizona. 
They have exactly the same amount of carbon. 
What is missing is a sense of urgency. 
NBC -- I'll show all of the networks here -- the top journalists for NBC asked 956 questions in 2007 of the presidential candidates: two of them were about the climate crisis. ABC: 844 questions, two about the climate crisis. 
This is gasoline consumption in all of these countries. And us. 
We have the technologies. 
We have to have a unified view of how to go about this: the struggle against poverty in the world and the challenge of cutting wealthy country emissions, all has a single, very simple solution. 
But responses can actually make a huge difference in the poor countries. This is a proposal that has been talked about a lot in Europe. 
Lot of other things contributed to it, but the new Prime Minister announced that his very first priority would be to change Australia's position on Kyoto, and he has. Now, they came to an awareness partly because of the horrible drought that they have had. 
But we have a planetary emergency. 
If we had just one week's worth of what we spend on the Iraq War, we could be well on the way to solving this challenge. 
This challenge is part of the fabric of our whole civilization. 
Demand -- change the light bulbs, but change the laws. Change the global treaties. 
Now, nobody is talking on that scale. But I do believe that between now and November, it is possible. 
In terms of your own personal role going forward, Al, is there something more than that you would like to be doing? 
Al Gore, thank you so much for coming to TED. 
And that's certainly how it seemed to me when I started this project. 
All this noise around us actually has information. 
So what I started thinking was, perhaps there is something like open source intelligence here. 
So we started doing this. And you can see here on the horizontal axis you've got the number of people killed in an attack or the size of the attack. 
You take all of the conflict, all of the chaos, all of the noise, and out of that comes this precise mathematical distribution of the way attacks are ordered in this conflict. 
And we found that not only were the distributions these straight lines, but the slope of these lines, they clustered around this value of alpha equals 2.5. 
And we could generate an equation that could predict the likelihood of an attack. 
This is data, statistics. What does it tell us about these conflicts? 
Turns out we kind of do a reasonable job. 
So what's going on? 
Why should these different -- seemingly different conflicts have the same patterns? 
What does it look like? 
We can push it up: the forces become more fragmented; there is more of them, but they are weaker. 
The opposite happened. 
The groups became stronger. 
But designers are great at taking big revolutions that happen and transforming them so that we can use them. 
You work over different time zones, you talk to very different people, you multitask. We all know it, and we do it kind of automatically. 
And all of a sudden scientists are seeking designers, just like designers are seeking scientists. 
And Keith has come, and also Jonathan has come and many others. 
And it was great, because at the beginning was this apology fest -- you know, scientists would tell designers, you know, I don't know what style is, I'm not really elegant. 
Paul Steinhardt, a physicist from New York, and Aranda/Lasch, architects, collaborated in an installation in London at the Serpentine. 
I'm showing to you different sections of the show right now, just to give you a taste of it. 
In this case I'm showing more the designers' work, because they're the ones that have really been stimulated. 
But the problem is that it's a really ugly patty. 
When you don't have to kill cows and it can have any shape, what should it be like? 
One of the most important topics of the show -- you know, as anything in our life today, we can look at it from many, many different viewpoints, and at different levels. 
One of the most interesting and most important concepts is the idea of scale. We change scale very often: we change resolution of screens, and we're not really fazed by it, we do it very comfortably. 
You can be in the subway and you can be completely isolated and have your own room in your iPod. 
Again, this communal sense of experience that seems to be so important today. 
And so this student at the RCA designed this beautiful blown-glass object where the bees move from one chamber to the other if they detect that particular smell that signifies, in this case, pregnancy. 
Design for Debate is a very interesting new endeavor that designers have really shaped for themselves. 
And usually they are accompanied by videos. 
It's quite amazing how these things can make you smile, can make you laugh, can make you cry sometimes. 
Thank you very much. 
The only trouble is the people next door; I can't stand them. 
And yet, if I just allowed myself to be overwhelmed by these feelings, I wouldn't be doing my job -- because I have to actually be there for them and make sure that rituals happen, that practicalities are seen to. 
Who cannot be touched by compassion when we see the terrible horrors of the results of war, or famine, or earthquakes, or tsunamis? 
And, of course, you can't do that unless you understand yourself a bit more. 
Therefore, there should be justice throughout the world. 
So, like Snoopy, we can't just lie there and think great thoughts about our neighbors. 
There has to be a willingness to do good deeds, but not, of course, at the expense of our own sanity. 
What does this compassion entail? 
And, as many people do, he was dozing off during the sermon. 
And he rushed home. And after the Sabbath, he made 12 loaves of bread, took them to the synagogue, went into the synagogue, opened the ark and said, God, I don't know why you want this bread, but here you are. 
And he called the two of them to his office. 
You mean God didn't want my bread? 
And the rabbi said, You've misunderstood me. 
You've misunderstood totally, he said. 
Please keep your seat. 
Wrap it in an ACE bandage, take some ibuprofen for a week or two, and that's the end of the story. 
How can the nervous system get this so wrong? 
In your house, wires run in the wall, from the light switch to a junction box in the ceiling and from the junction box to the light bulb. 
It's almost as if somebody came into your home and rewired your walls so that the next time you turned on the light switch, the toilet flushed three doors down, or your dishwasher went on, or your computer monitor turned off. 
If you look out your window and you can see Long's Peak, you're probably familiar with it. 
Take Meeker, Mt. Meeker. Lump that in there, and put that in space as well, and Mt. Everest, and K2, and the Indian peaks. 
Because back then, video cameras were just starting to become popular, and people would bring them, parents would bring them, to their kids' football games to film their kids play football. And since this came in on a Friday, they were able to get this great footage of this thing breaking up as it came in over West Virgina, Maryland, Pennsylvania and New Jersey until it did that to a car in New York. 
This did a huge amount of damage. 
The one over Tunguska was probably made of rock, and that's much more crumbly, so it blew up in the air. Either way, these are tremendous explosions, 20 megatons. 
I don't think Apophis is a problem. 
In fact, Apophis is a blessing in disguise, because it woke us up to the dangers of these things. 
Well, let me ask you, what happens if you're standing in the middle of the road and a car's headed for you? What do you do? You do this. 
I think even NASA can do that, and they proved that they can.  
After the big macho Rrrrrrr BAM! We're gonna hit this thing in the face, then we bring in the velvet gloves. 
There's a group of scientists and engineers and astronauts and they call themselves The B612 Foundation. For those of you who've read The Little Prince, you understand that reference, I hope. The little prince who lived on an asteroid, it was called B612. 
So think about this, right? 
Now those of you who are lucky enough to live in those societies that represent 17 percent, I think should enjoy it until it lasts. 
My story starts -- the story I want to share -- starts in 1991. 
The problem was that we had to re-tape that history a week later; because if we did not, we could not afford enough tapes to keep archives of that history. 
So here we are having our first client, brilliant. 
It's a kind of very nice, sophisticated way how to economically strangle a daily newspaper. 
And we said, that's fine; let's meet; you'll bring us your business plan, which eventually they did. 
We start the meeting. 
But however you put it, you know, the numbers do not make any sense. 
We were the best that they could do. 
We do it in 17 countries of the developing world. 
So what the governor got was an empty shell. 
So from that perspective, what we did is just really one drop in the sea of that need that we can identify. 
Imagine two thirds over here running excellent organizations, doing very important work. 
Now imagine that every second person over here is deaf, does not hear, and switch the lights off. 
So we thought that some kind of a big idea is needed to reform, to totally rethink fundraising. 
And then two weeks later, Iqbal Quadir can issue his electricity in Bangladesh bonds. 
So, indeed, I have spent my life looking into the lives of presidents who are no longer alive. 
So since I tell stories, let me look back on the lives of two of the presidents I've studied to illustrate this point -- Abraham Lincoln and Lyndon Johnson. 
But he read books in every spare moment he could find. 
Three things had combined to lay him low. 
He was so depressed that friends worried he was suicidal. 
And his great friend Speed went to his side and said, Lincoln, you must rally or you will die. 
And with a beauty of language -- almost as if the Shakespeare and the poetry he had so loved as a child had worked their way into his very soul. 
Knowing that Tolstoy was in their midst, they asked him to tell stories of the great men of history. 
But instead, surprisingly, he said, Oh, bring her down here for a year, and if I can't win her over, no one can. 
But they were great, nonetheless. 
But I also worried that part of it was that I was then a young woman. 
And there was wine and cheese and a red-checked tablecloth -- all the romantic trappings. 
And the British people were still upset about losing the Revolution, so they decided to embarrass him a little bit by putting a huge picture of General Washington in the only outhouse, where he'd have to encounter it. 
Which allows me, from the beginning of spring training to the end of the fall, to have something to occupy my mind and heart other than my work. 
But it so happened he was speaking in a Protestant Church. 
So I went to my father in tears, What are we going to do? 
I tried to sandwich it in between talking too much in church, wishing harm to others, being mean to my sisters. 
Well, here's an example from my own experience. 
There are lots of people who believe that, and I think it is utter baloney. 
I think that's the main point to be made. 
And I won't go into a lot of stuff about quantum mechanics and what it's like, and so on. 
There are even movies about it with a lot of wrong stuff. 
And in a lot of familiar cases, they of course are. 
So it's not a theory of everything. And in fact, a huge amount of the information in the universe around us comes from those accidents, and not just from the fundamental laws. 
You know what it means. A circle, for example, is symmetric under rotations about the center of the circle. 
Maxwell's equations are of course symmetrical under rotations of all of space. 
The next -- second -- equation says that there is no magnetism other than that. 
So here we say, again, what we said before: that each skin of the onion shows a similarity to the adjoining skins. 
And therefore it looks beautiful because we already know how to write it in a lovely, concise way. 
Steps toward unification exhibit the simplicity. 
Symmetry exhibits the simplicity. 
Now, who today would claim that as a mere conceit of the human mind? 
They are what we call emergent properties. 
You don't need -- you don't need something more to get something more. 
Life can emerge from physics and chemistry, plus a lot of accidents. 
The things we make have one supreme quality -- they live longer than us. 
We perish, they survive; we have one life, they have many lives, and in each life they can mean different things. 
The central element, still, of the notion of return, a central part of the life of Judaism. 
All of those are respected by Cyrus. 
It left a dream of the Middle East as a unit, and a unit where people of different faiths could live together. 
For them, of course, it can't possibly by Marduk that made all this happen. 
And it's quite clear the cylinder is older than the text of Isaiah, and yet, Jehovah is speaking in words very similar to those used by Marduk. 
The state of Israel is setup, and 50 years later, in the late 60s, it's clear that Britain's role as the imperial power is over. 
It's shown being presented here, put into its case by the director of the National Museum of Tehran, one of the many women in Iran in very senior positions, Mrs. Ardakani. 
And it's the subject of a huge debate about what this cylinder means, what Cyrus means, but above all, Cyrus as articulated through this cylinder -- Cyrus as the defender of the homeland, the champion, of course, of Iranian identity and of the Iranian peoples, tolerant of all faiths. 
Will Iran set free the people that the tyrants have enslaved and expropriated? 
A replica of this is at the United Nations. 
But I think it's possible that the most powerful and the wisest voice of all of them may well be the voice of this mute thing, the Cyrus cylinder. 
Making sense of those things is a very difficult thing to do. 
In fact, I have got qualifications. 
So I started thinking about peace, and I was obviously, as I said to you, very much moved by these images, trying to make sense of that. 
Could I go and speak to older and wiser people who would tell me how they made sense of the things that are going on? 
And that was when I had the idea. 
There was no day of global unity. 
And that's why we wanted it to be the 21st of September as the date of peace. 
Could you give me a flight? Because we're going to go see him. 
And of course, we went and saw him and it was amazing. 
And just staying in the moment with it was a beautiful thing and really empowering actually. 
And we were listening to everybody. 
and working with NGOs and building this case. 
I felt that I was presenting a case on behalf of the global community to try and create this day. 
And this young child who'd taken about an inch and a half out of her leg with no antiseptic, and that young boy who was a child soldier, who told me he'd killed people -- he was about 12 -- these things made me realize that this was not a film that I could just stop. 
If this is the only film that I ever make, I'm going to document until this becomes a reality. 
The Costa Rican government and the British government had put forward to the United Nations General Assembly, with 54 co-sponsors, the idea of the first ever Ceasefire Nonviolence Day, the 21st of September, as a fixed calendar date, and it was unanimously adopted by every head of state in the world. 
And as I mentioned, when it started, we were at the Globe, and there was no press. 
It's been created; nobody knows. 
But we have to continue this journey, and we have to tell people, and we have to prove it can work. 
And after lots and lots of meetings obviously, I'm delighted that this man, Ahmad Fawzi, one of my heroes and mentors really, he managed to get UNICEF involved. 
And I saw him because he was an actor, I was an actor, I had a connection to him, because we needed to get to the press, we needed this attraction, we needed the media to be involved. 
Because if we start pumping it up a bit maybe more people would listen and there'd be more -- when we got into certain areas, maybe there would be more people interested. 
I won't go into that. 
So Jude said, Okay, I'll do some statements for you. 
And I could sort of see a little look in his eye of interest. 
So these guys were absolutely crucial. 
This amazing woman, Fatima Gailani, was absolutely instrumental in what went on as she was the spokesperson for the resistance against the Russians. 
And her Afghan network was just absolutely everywhere. 
We will observe this day. 
We see it as a window of opportunity. 
And so then we wrapped the film up and we put it together because we had to go back. 
And we wanted to go back and show them the film and say, Look, you guys made this possible. And thank you very much. 
And I kept thinking about this 70 percent. 
70 percent reduction in violence -- in what everyone said was completely impossible and you couldn't do. 
He's an amazing man. 
It's all about the individuals. 
And it then made me think about a glass of water, which is clear. 
Thank you very much. Thank you. 
There was not a flashlight, not a lantern, not a candle -- pitch black. 
Anesthetic wears off. The patient feels pain. 
And her recommendation is take this opportunity to fire everyone, start all over again. 
Now what does this have to do with leadership? 
They are the elite. They are our leaders. 
And we need to train them right. 
And one day I go to the airport to meet my father, and as I walk up this grassy slope from the car park to the terminal building, I'm stopped by two soldiers wielding AK-47 assault weapons. 
So a few years after this event, I leave Ghana on a scholarship to go to Swarthmore College for my education. 
They wanted us to be analytical. 
They wanted us to be concerned about social issues. 
It was brilliant. 
Somebody trained them to do the work that they do. 
Now, we cannot achieve perfection, but if we reach for it, then we can achieve excellence. 
I don't know ultimately what they will do. 
But the conversation they're having now -- about what their good society should look like, what their excellent society should look like, is a really good thing. 
Now, I just wanted to leave that slide up because it's important that we think about it. 
I am even more thrilled by the fact that least year our student body elected a woman to be the head of Student Government. 
It's the first time in the history of Ghana that a woman has been elected head of Student Government at any university. 
It says a lot about her peers who elected her. 
My job is to make arms and legs -- well it's not completely true. 
And then, not only for war victims, but it was for any kind of patient. 
I was also working in the orthopedic center, we call it. 
But it was a terrific job. 
So the orthopedic center was closed because physical rehabilitation was not considered a priority. 
Anyway, you know every time I make this speech -- it's not the first time -- but it's an emotion. 
I wanted to go home. I was driving. 
And everybody disappeared from the street. 
The man was without legs and only with one arm. 
And I ask, What are you doing out in the street in this situation? 
And then I said, Oh, my God. What did I say? 
He was coming every day, crossing the front line. 
Two groups of Mujahideen started fighting. 
So we dashed, all of us, towards the shelter. 
Everybody was grabbing something. 
And I will never forget Mahmoud and his son walking together pushing the empty wheelchair. 
I don't want them to be teased at school by the other students. 
I said, Okay. 
And then he sat down. 
So the only things I could manage to obtain was a kind of a compromise. 
I understood that I was wrong again. 
And then we started a new policy -- a new policy completely different. 
We decided to employ as many disabled as possible to train them in any possible job. 
I said, No, no, no, no, we can't. 
And you should see me during the match. 
I shout like a true Italian. 
In this image of the Tokyo skyline, I've hidden data from the newest planet-hunting space telescope on the block, the Kepler Mission. 
There we go. 
And we can measure this very, very precisely with Kepler and trace their effects. 
Wrong. I'm not looking at you. I can't see you. 
I have to do something now, which seems a little bit strange for a magician. 
Oh, they gladly sell you that, yes. 
But the one thing that has made a big comeback just recently is this business of speaking with the dead. 
I don't think so, because this subculture of people use exactly the same gimmicks that we magicians do, exactly the same -- the same physical methods, the same psychological methods -- and they effectively and profoundly deceive millions of people around the earth, to their detriment. 
Good bye. 
The second question that I'd like to ask, rather simple: Suppose I ask them to contact the spirit of my deceased father-in-law, as an example. 
Is this a hunting game? 
But it is a cruel, vicious, absolutely conscienceless -- I'll be all right, keep your seats  -- game that these people play. 
Folks, that's what dying is all about! 
Now, it may bring a certain amount of comfort, but that comfort lasts only about 20 minutes or so. 
We all know who he is on television. 
He's well educated, he's smart, he knows what Sylvia Browne is doing but he doesn't give a damn. 
Because, the bottom line is, the sponsors love it, and he will expose her to television publicity all the time. 
Now, without that, how could we possibly function?  
She gives you the names of previous lives, who you were in previous lives. 
Duh. 
Nothing is ever said about a 14 year-old bootblack in the streets of London who died of consumption. 
All the more reason to take the million dollars, wouldn't you think, Sylvia? 
Why don't they affect me? 
Now folks, this is not just a metaphor I'm going to give you now, it's true. 
And another claim that they make -- you'll love this one -- the more dilute the medicine is, they say, the more powerful it is. 
Largely, it's the media who are to blame for this sort of thing. 
It's the bottom line, the dollar line. 
Now, we've offered this carrot, as I say, we've dangled the carrot. 
Ladies and gentlemen, I'm James Randi, and I'm waiting. 
And one of the major gaps in care, almost across the board, is access to safe surgery. 
In the background there is a very sophisticated anesthesia machine. 
In order to operate, this machine needs a number of things that this hospital has to offer. 
And finally, I think you can see that infrastructure is not very strong. 
Similarly compressed oxygen and other medical supplies are really a luxury and can often be out of stock for months or even a year. 
One of our partners at Johns Hopkins was observing surgeries in Sierra Leone about a year ago. 
And the first surgery of the day happened to be an obstetrical case. 
And everything began pretty auspiciously. 
My colleague, Dr. Paul Fenton, was living this reality. 
He went to work every day in an operating theater like this one, trying to deliver anesthesia and teach others how to do so using that same equipment that became so unreliable, and frankly unsafe, in his hospital. 
But this gives control to the provider, whether there's power or not, because they can adjust the flow based on the percentage of oxygen they see that they're giving their patient. 
This is in 13 hospitals in four countries, and since 2010, we've done well over 2,000 surgeries with no clinically adverse events. 
So we're thrilled. 
Because only once before has the fate of individual people and the fate of all of humanity been so intertwined. 
Maybe a few lung diseases here and there, but, you know, that's not such a big deal. 
But back to animals and junk food. 
Two: both have been marketed heavily, creating unnatural demand. 
And they do this here. It's the same deal. 
That's just the United States. 
There were no restaurant chains. 
Fats, carbs, proteins -- they weren't bad or good, they were food. 
The South and West became agricultural hubs, and in other parts of the country, suburbs took over farmland. 
If we had a slide of Salisbury steak, even more so, right? 
Thanks to farm subsidies, the fine collaboration between agribusiness and Congress, soy, corn and cattle became king. 
Not that they were any good, but they were there. 
For dessert, store-bought ice cream or cookies. 
So now, you've got your pizza nights, you've got your microwave nights, you've got your grazing nights, you've got your fend-for-yourself nights and so on. 
Meat, junk food, cheese: the very stuff that will kill you. 
So, now we clamor for organic food. 
I don't know. 
Ann Cooper's right. 
The USDA is not our ally here. 
Cruelty: I knew that the 10 billion animals we raise each year for meat are raised in factory farm conditions that we, hypocritically, wouldn't even consider for our own cats, dogs and other pets. 
So why was I stalling? 
Best of all, I'm healthier, I know that I'm going to live longer, and I've even lost a little weight. 
Thank you. 
Some of these have already been touched upon by other speakers, which is encouraging. 
The first is -- death is a big problem. 
Sometimes, we don't see a problem because either it's too familiar or it's too big. 
People like -- it's roughly the population in this room has just died. 
Suppose we approximated one person with one book? 
So that's the first big problem. 
Well, let's first look at the probability -- and this is very, very difficult to estimate -- but there have been only four studies on this in recent years, which is surprising. 
He estimated a probability that we will fail to survive the current century: 50 percent. 
Another author doesn't give any numerical estimate, but says the probability is significant that it will fail. 
Now, if we think about what just reducing the probability of human extinction by just one percentage point -- not very much -- so that's equivalent to 60 million lives saved, if we just count the currently living people, the current generation. 
The only thing you should focus on would be to reduce existential risk because even the tiniest decrease in existential risk would just overwhelm any other benefit you could hope to achieve. 
And even if you just look at the current people, and ignore the potential that would be lost if we went extinct, it should still have a high priority. 
We were very successful. 
We might end up with something like this, which is -- I mean, it's a heck of a lot better than that. 
And they also all seem a little bit -- most people have this instinct that, well, sure, there needs to be anti-depressants for the really depressed people. 
Intellectual capacity -- let's take that box, which falls into a lot of different sub-categories: memory, concentration, mental energy, intelligence, empathy. 
Able to switch back and forth more easily would be a neat thing to be able to do -- easier to achieve the flow state, when you're totally immersed in something you are doing. 
If you could actually choose to preserve your romantic attachments to one person, undiminished through time, so that wouldn't have to -- love would never have to fade if you didn't want it to. 
Might be more complicated in humans, but perhaps not that much. 
Well, we know already that in this little human circle there, there are these enormously wonderful and worthwhile modes of being -- human life at its best is wonderful. 
We have no reason to believe that within this much, much larger space there would not also be extremely worthwhile modes of being, perhaps ones that would be way beyond our wildest ability even to imagine or dream about. 
And so, to fix this third problem, I think we need -- slowly, carefully, with ethical wisdom and constraint -- develop the means that enable us to go out in this larger space and explore it and find the great values that might hide there. 
The sun end was about four inches in diameter, and then it tapered over about 35 feet to about a millimeter at the Earth end. 
So I got it down to just one tether to be able to support that. 
So many forces there. 
If I throw a very concentric circle, or concentric ellipse, it just dutifully makes these evenly spaced lines, which get closer and closer together, which describes how gravity works. 
Because since it has the ability to make forms that look like forms that we're familiar with in biology, it's also making other forms that we're not familiar with. 
Oh, let's hope so. Oh, my God, let's. 
And I think nature wants to express itself in the sense that we are nature, humans are of the universe. 
And we are expressions of the universe, basically. 
As humans, ultimately being part of the universe, we're kind of the spokespeople or the observer part of the constituency of the universe. 
And to interface with it, with a device that lets these forces that are everywhere act and show what they can do, giving them pigment and paint just like an artist, it's a good ally. 
It's become an art form, a form of sculpture. 
But even more importantly, he created a language, a way we could communicate, a code of dots, dashes and arrows. 
This is an origami figure -- one sheet, no cuts, folding only, hundreds of folds. 
This, too, is origami, and this shows where we've gone in the modern world. 
You can get horns, antlers -- even, if you look close, cloven hooves. 
And what changed is something you might not have expected in an art, which is math. 
I mean, a stag beetle -- it's got two points for jaws, it's got antennae. Can you be that specific in the detail? 
If I make the flaps skinnier, I can use a bit less paper. 
And I can use those patterns now to create origami shapes. 
Do a little more complicated instrument. 
And he used it to design this solar array. 
The telescope, going up in space, it unfolds in two places. 
The design called for geosynchronous orbit 25,000 miles up, 100-meter diameter lens. 
And rockets are small. So you have to make it smaller. 
But this pattern's not going to work to get something 100 meters down to a few meters. 
And they want to do their design by simulation. 
And as weird and surprising as it may sound, origami may someday even save a life. 
Now, ecstasy in Greek meant simply to stand to the side of something. 
You can't understand more than two people talking to you. 
And it has become a kind of a truism in the study of creativity that you can't be creating anything with less than 10 years of technical-knowledge immersion in a particular field. 
Whether it's mathematics or music, it takes that long to be able to begin to change something in a way that it's better than what was there before. 
You see that these people define success as something that helps others and at the same time makes you feel happy as you are working at it. 
The other combinations of challenge and skill become progressively less optimal. 
And that is the kind of challenge that we're trying to understand. 
Not a lot of women did. 
The '20s and the '60s also come to mind. 
This is really just about the facts of this economic moment that we live in. 
This second set of headlines -- you can see that families and marriages are starting to shift. 
And so they decided, because they were intrigued by this finding, to do a nationwide survey. 
So they spread out all the census data, and what they found, the guy described to me as a shocker, which is that in 1,997 out of 2,000 communities, women, young women, were making more money than young men. 
Watch what happens to the women. Watch what happens to the men. 
It looks like women got some power boost on a video game, or like they snuck in some secret serum into their birth-control pills that lets them shoot up high. 
What it's about is that the economy has changed a lot. 
So that's childcare, elder care and food preparation. 
And some people say it's because, in 9th grade, boys start dropping out of school. 
Basically, the way they said it to me is that they would be working 18 hours a day, that their husband would maybe have a job, but that mostly he would be at home taking care of the kiddies. 
And this was kind of a shocker to me. 
They basically enshrined the second-class status of women in the civil code. 
For one thing, it puts men and women in a really antagonistic relationship with one another, because the men are these devious tricksters up there who've put up this glass ceiling. 
So the image that I like to think of, instead of glass ceiling, is the high bridge. 
There's no man or woman standing in the middle about to cut the cables. 
To the dismay of my mother, this is dangerous teenage fashion right there. 
Really make a fully integrated product, something beautiful. 
This baby is fully electric. 
All the projections [say that] this one [billion] will [only] grow with one to two or three percent. 
[But this second] grows with seven, eight percent, and then they will end up here. 
They will start flying. 
Because we already have this [growth] in process. 
The year is 1960. 
Can you see, as the years pass by, child survival is increasing? 
It's only by child survival that we will stop population growth. 
In the front, you see, actually, Joe Murray getting the patient ready for the transplant, while in the back room you see Hartwell Harrison, the Chief of Urology at Harvard, actually harvesting the kidney. 
That really has to do with our aging population. 
It's not really that foreign of a concept, actually; it happens on the Earth every day. 
So, your body is constantly regenerating. 
So, how can we harness that power? 
That's exactly what you see here. 
To the naked eye they look like a piece of your blouse, or your shirt, but actually these materials are fairly complex and they are designed to degrade once inside the body. 
It disintegrates a few months later. 
What about other structures? 
This is actually an engineered blood vessel. 
You now have your fully seeded scaffold. 
We then take a scaffold that we shape like a bladder. 
We place it back into this oven-like device. 
So, bladders are definitely a little bit more complex than the other structures. 
But there are other hollow organs that have added complexity to it. 
We exercise these prior to implantation. 
All we are left with is the skeleton, if you will, of the liver, all made up of collagen, a material that's in our bodies, that will not reject. 
This is still experimental. But we are able to actually reproduce the functionality of the liver structure, experimentally. 
So, another strategy we're following is actually to create wafers that we stack together, like an accordion, if you will. 
If at all possible, we really would like to use smart biomaterials that we can just take off the shelf and regenerate your organs. 
Why? Because we'd rather take those cells which already know that those are the cell types you want. 
And we prefer cells that will not reject and will not form tumors. 
And we're working a lot with the stem cells that we published on two years ago, stem cells from the amniotic fluid, and the placenta, which have those properties. 
So, I always like to show this cartoon. 
And there you see the stagecoach driver, and he goes, on the top panel, He goes A, B, C, D, E, F. 
Entrepreneurs are people -- because we have a lot of them in this room -- who have these ideas and these passions or see these needs in the world and we decide to stand up and do it. 
And as a young kid, nobody can say it can't happen because you're too dumb to realize that you couldn't figure it out. 
If we can teach our kids to become entrepreneurial -- the ones that show those traits to be -- like we teach the ones who have science gifts to go on in science, what if we saw the ones who had entrepreneurial traits and taught them to be entrepreneurs? 
We could actually have all these kids spreading businesses instead of waiting for government handouts. 
And the media says that it's really cool if we could go out and be a model or a singer or a sports hero like Luongo, Crosby. 
Our MBA programs do not teach kids to be entrepreneurs. 
We didn't fit in the normal work. We couldn't work for somebody else because we're too stubborn and we have all these other traits. 
I could go on and on. 
Fit into this other system and try to become a student. 
I'm also quoted -- and I told the person who wrote the textbook -- I'm now quoted in that exact same university textbook in every Canadian university and college studies. 
I open up chapter eight talking about budgeting. 
And I told the author, after they did my interview, that I cheated in that same course. 
And my mom came into the room and she said, Where are you going to get the coat hangers to sell to the dry cleaners? 
I'm like, But you have two cars and they don't have license plate protectors. 
So I knew there were two cars with two license plates on each. 
But it was obvious to me, right? Buy low, sell high. 
Don't try to sell to the poor kids; they don't have cash. The rich people do. Go get some. 
So that's obvious, right. 
and making money off that too. 
I built these little pincushions when I was 11 years old in Cubs, and we made these pin cushions for our moms for Mother's Day. 
And you'd make these chairs. 
You get the golf balls, and you just throw them in your bathing suit trunks and when you're done you've got a couple hundred of them. 
And they could use those for practice balls. 
But it paid the bills. 
I remember being told to walk out in the middle of a street in Banff, Alberta because I'd thrown a penny out in the street, and my dad said, Go pick it up. 
But then we negotiate on what they're going to get paid. 
You breed that kind of stuff. Each of my kids has two piggy banks. 
The 50 percent that goes in their house account, every six months, goes to the bank. 
Just do that kind of stuff and have fun with it. 
We have all these lessons in front of us, but we don't take those opportunities; we teach kids to go get a tutor. 
My kids love this stuff. 
It's a video that was done by one of the companies that I mentor. 
They were trying to figure out how to rebuild their universities. 
Since education under the Soviet Union was essentially propaganda serving the purposes of a state ideology, they appreciated that it would take wholesale transformations if they were to provide an education worthy of free men and women. 
You may think you know what is going on in that Jane Austen novel -- that is, until your first encounter with postmodern deconstructionism. 
When the astronomical distance between the realities of the academy and the visionary intensity of this challenge were more than enough, I can assure you, to give one pause, what was happening outside higher education made backing off unthinkable. 
And that was only the beginning. 
Incredibly, this nation, with all its material, intellectual and spiritual resources, seems utterly helpless to reverse the freefall in any of these areas. 
We are playing with fire. 
On a more personal note, this betrayal of our principles, our decency, our hope, made it impossible for me to avoid the question, What will I say, years from now, when people ask, 'Where were you?' As president of a leading liberal arts college, famous for its innovative history, there were no excuses. 
The challenge: to figure out what it will take to actually do something that makes a significant and sustainable difference. 
Even more valuable, history provides a laboratory in which we see played out the actual, as well as the intended consequences of ideas. 
Students, in turn, continuously move outside the classroom to engage the world directly. 
This is a political education, to be sure. 
The center will embody and sustain this new educational commitment. 
What is certain is that the individual talent exhibited in such abundance here, needs to turn its attention to that collaborative, messy, frustrating, contentious and impossible world of politics and public policy. 
All right. Okay, so ... perfect. 
They go to church, by which I mean, they do lots of things for free for each other. 
Now, I know you don't believe me, really, here. 
He's a terrible producer of videos, but it's great content, so I'm going to give you a little bit of it. 
So here he is beginning. 
This is this fantastic Brat Pack remix set to Lisztomania. 
They decided they wanted to do the same. 
So that's importantly different from the earlier videos we looked at because here, remix isn't just about an individual doing something alone in his basement; it becomes an act of social creativity. 
Indeed, Mickey Mouse himself, of course, as Steamboat Willie, is a remix of the then, very dominant, very popular Steamboat Bill by Buster Keaton. 
He is the celebration and ideal of exactly this kind of creativity. 
But then the company passes through this dark stage to this Democrat. 
Okay, for a second example, think about this cultural hero, icon on the Left, creator of this character. 
Look at the site that he built: Star Wars MashUps, inviting people to come and use their creative energy to produce a new generation of attention towards this extraordinarily important cultural icon. 
So the point is the Republicans here recognize that there's a certain need of ownership, a respect for ownership, the respect we should give the creator, the remixer, the owner, the property owner, the copyright owner of this extraordinarily powerful stuff, and not a generation of sharecroppers. 
Now, I think there are lessons we should learn here, lessons about openness. 
Our lives are sharing activities, at least in part. 
That's number one. Number two: This ecology of sharing needs freedom within which to create. 
And number three: We need to respect the creator, the creator of these remixes through rights that are directly tied to them. 
These tools that we built enable this sharing in parts through licenses that make it clear and a freedom to create without requiring permission first because the permission has already been granted and a respect for the creator because it builds upon a copyright the creator has licensed freely. 
And it explains the vast right-wing conspiracy that's obviously developed around these licenses, as now more than 350 million digital objects are out there, licensed freely in this way. 
Now, if we can learn those values from at least some influences on the Right, if we can take them and incorporate them, maybe we could do a little trade. 
In fact, someone on Reddit thought, Oh, what a great thing, we should all vote this up. 
And that was that the Internet loves Mister Splashy Pants. 
They even created an e-card so you could send your friend a dancing Splashy. 
There are so many great publishing tools that are available, it only takes a few minutes of your time now to actually produce something. 
If you want to succeed you've got to be okay to just lose control. 
Well we all know the World Wide Web has absolutely transformed publishing, broadcasting, commerce and social connectivity, but where did it all come from? 
Vannevar Bush was the U.S. government's chief scientific adviser during the war. 
And the memex would link information, one piece of information to a related piece of information and so forth. 
He built a system. 
And we delivered the world's first hypertext system. 
They had a 12-page supplement in the Wall Street Journal the day it launched. 
I thought, well, you know, interesting, but a guy from CERN, he's not going to do this. 
In 1992, his paper was rejected for the Hypertext Conference. 
Secondly, for the first time in the modern era, the dominant country in the world -- which I think is what China will become -- will be not from the West and from very, very different civilizational roots. 
Now, I know it's a widespread assumption in the West that as countries modernize, they also westernize. 
It will remain in very fundamental respects very different. 
In other words, China, unlike the Western states and most countries in the world, is shaped by its sense of civilization, its existence as a civilization-state, rather than as a nation-state. 
Well, basically the East was swallowed by the West. 
Hence their attitude, for example, to the Uyghurs and to the Tibetans. 
This is the Chinese view of the state -- very, very different to ours. 
Know that China believes in the market and the state. 
Moreover, this is a very old state tradition, a very old tradition of statecraft. 
And yet we still insist, by and large, in thinking that we can understand China by simply drawing on Western experience, looking at it through Western eyes, using Western concepts. 
But it's not. 
Whereas those cultures -- virtually the rest of the world, in fact, which have been in a far weaker position, vis-a-vis the West -- have been thereby forced to understand the West, because of the West's presence in those societies. 
Because what's happening? Back to that chart at the beginning, the Goldman Sachs chart. 
Europe was not at the final negotiating table. 
Well, maybe that's true, maybe that's an exaggeration. 
But there's another problem which goes along with this -- that Europe is increasingly out of touch with the world -- and that is a sort of loss of a sense of the future. 
Or take this: now this is an idea, but it's an idea to be tried out shortly in a suburb of Beijing. 
Accelerometers on each hand read hand position. 
And he was very impressed. He was all tearing up. Ready to hug me. 
I must have done about 30,000 caricatures. 
That evening, I came home to hundreds of hate mails, hundreds of people telling me how they could have lived another day without seeing this. 
I was also asked to leave the organization, a cartoonists' organization in America, that for me was my lifeline. 
And, all of a sudden, my paintings came alive. 
The collaborative effort was fabulous. 
Since I mentioned my wife, the most important collaboration has been with her, Netra. 
I must have been 19 and a half then, and it was love at first sight. 
I lived in India. She lived in America. 
Notice one thing, we're equal here. 
We had fashion designers, installation artists, models, we had makeup artists, jewelry designers, all kinds of people working with me to make my wedding an art installation. 
And I had a special installation in tribute to my in-laws. 
I could not live this larger than life person. 
This time I said let's try something different. 
And this was just eight months ago. 
I walk into her room, and there was a shy girl, and she was bald, and she was trying to hide her baldness. 
I whipped out my pen, and I started drawing on her head and I drew a crown for her. 
Our computers, our systems will be as primitive as the Apollo's are for today. 
We can develop any part of the body. 
The other major development is going to be in the area of what can happen in genetics. 
This would imply a massive leap in migration. 
An individual, for the first time in the history of humanity, will have the capacity, by 2030, to destroy the planet, to wreck everything, through the creation, for example, of a biopathogen. 
More people, smaller spaces, less stuff. 
For example, I want to use Zipcar. 
And so from a branding perspective, they got a lot right. 
Platforms are invitations. 
So creating Craigslist or iTunes and the iPhone developer network, there are all these networks -- Facebook as well. 
Essentially, there are all sorts of restaurants in Oakland, near where I live. 
And one quick example is Velib, in 2007, came forward in Paris with a very bold proposition, a very big bike-sharing service. 
We're at the very beginning of something that, what we're seeing and the way that mesh companies are coming forward, is inviting, it's engaging, but it's very early. 
You have to make a wish to save the world. 
I mean, I can't save the world. Nobody can. 
I know those guys. 
It was the only one I had at that time. 
They were making scary faces to play the caricature of themselves. 
So we decided to take portraits of Palestinians and Israelis doing the same jobs -- taxi-driver, lawyer, cooks. 
The experts said, No way. 
We said, Okay, let's try and push as far as we can. 
Okay, for example, that's Palestine. 
Three kids -- that was three students -- were [detained] by the army because they were not carrying their papers. 
We need culture out there. 
You see that enough in the media. 
What I want to show is the incredible life. 
During that time, you haven't thought about what you're going to eat tomorrow. 
When you look at Kibera now, they look back. 
So we could just walk in the street during the next days and the photos would get revealed by themselves. 
So we didn't get caught this time. 
Hopefully, you'll see the film, and you'll understand the scope of the project and what the people felt when they saw those photos. 
Because that's a big part of it. There's layers behind each photo. 
But tell me, advertising for what? 
The people I photograph were proud to participate in the project and to have their photo in the community. 
The importance is what you do with the images, the statement it makes where it's pasted. 
This image of three men wearing gas masks was taken in Chernobyl originally, and I pasted it in Southern Italy, where the mafia sometimes bury the garbage under the ground. 
So a subject you're passionate about, a person who you want to tell their story or even your own photos -- tell me what you stand for. 
Einstein's especially interested in Penelope's talk. 
A lot of her research goes on in caves, which can get pretty dusty. 
Well, that's really cool, but what Einstein's really hoping is that maybe he'll genetically engineer a five-pound peanut. 
That is one big peanut. Since Einstein is a bird, she's very interested in things that fly. 
E: [Spaceship noise] SW: Even if it doesn't have a laser? 
E: [Squawks] SW: Yeah, it sure can. But when Einstein needs to relax from her job educating the public, she loves to take in the arts. 
Or maybe Sirena Huang would like to learn some arias on her violin, and Einstein can sing along with some opera? 
E: [Operatic squawk] SW: Very good. 
Or maybe Stu just needs another backup singer? 
You like to drink water. 
Again. 
E: Ooooowww. 
E: Goodbye. 
And about five years ago, we asked what was the most important need for innovation in schooling here in the U.K. 
The minister of education down south in London described himself as a big fan. 
They're not like all of you who can sit in rows and hear things said to you for hour after hour. 
I would run into the living room, jump up on the couch, rip the cushions off, throw them on the floor, scream at the top of my lungs and run out because I was the Incredible Hulk. 
And I would like to share my art. 
So, moving onward. 
First principles, this is very important. 
I tried kickboards. 
Hand paddles, everything. 
Kicking harder doesn't solve the problem because the average swimmer only transfers about three percent of their energy expenditure into forward motion. 
So let's look at some examples. This is Terry. 
Rather, he is entering the water at a 45-degree angle with his forearm, and then propelling himself by streamlining -- very important. 
Below is what most swimmers will find enables them to do what I did, which is going from 21 strokes per 20-yard length to 11 strokes in two workouts with no coach, no video monitoring. 
In freestyle, easiest way to remedy this is to turn with body roll, and just to look at your recovery hand as it enters the water. 
Then I transferred to a different school sophomore year, and I had a choice of other languages. Most of my friends were taking Japanese. 
I couldn't believe I was on the other side of the world. 
And a teacher came up to me and handed me a piece of paper. 
And that's pretty much my response. 
Nothing worked until I found this. 
Many of the publications in Japan limit themselves to these characters, to facilitate literacy -- some are required to. 
And now I love languages. 
I was so concerned with her perception of what I was doing, that it exploded in my face, never to return to the ballroom dancing club. 
Everyone burst into laughter. I was humiliated. 
So I had a very short deadline for a competition. 
These seemed to be the three areas that I could exploit to compete if I wanted to comptete against people who'd been practicing for 20 to 30 years. 
That photo is of the semi-finals of the Buenos Aires championships, four months later. 
Then one month later, went to the world championships, made it to the semi-final. And then set a world record, following that, two weeks later. 
So he can lift the woman to break her, for example. 
There are many different types. 
I have hundreds of hours of footage -- all categorized, much like George Carlin categorized his comedy. 
So fear is your friend. Fear is an indicator. 
Especially with fears you gained when you were a child. 
And if any of you are interested in that, I would love to speak with you. 
But I ask a lot of questions, and I would love your advice. 
It's written using Wiki software -- which is the type of software he just demonstrated -- so anyone can quickly edit and save, and it goes live on the Internet immediately. 
So when Yochai is talking about new methods of organization, he's exactly describing Wikipedia. And what I'm going to do today is tell you a little bit more about how it really works on the inside. 
And so if you think about what that means, it means a lot more than just building a cool website. 
And so that's a big part of why we've chosen the free licensing model, because that empowers local entrepreneurs -- or anyone who wants to, can take our content and do anything they like with it -- you can copy it, redistribute it and you can do it commercially or non-commercially. 
The biggest languages are German, Japanese, French -- all the Western European languages are quite big. 
So the big question when you've got this really chaotic organization is, why isn't it all rubbish? Why is the website as good as it is? 
The actual truth about the specific Bush-Kerry incident is that the Bush-Kerry articles were locked less than one percent of the time in 2004, and it wasn't because they were contentious; it was just because there was routine vandalism -- which happens sometimes even on stage, people -- sometimes even reporters have reported to me that they vandalize Wikipedia and were amazed that it was fixed so quickly. 
So the biggest and the most important thing is our neutral point-of-view policy. 
If you engage in that type of behavior, you'll be asked to leave the community. 
And then users can set up their own personal watch list. 
So my page is on quite a few volunteers' watch lists, because it is sometimes vandalized. 
And that's a really important thing to understand, is that the vast majority of the edits that go on on the website are from a very close-knit community of maybe 600 to 1,000 people who are in constant communication. 
Another thing that we do within the community is we leave everything very open-ended. 
I give this talk sometimes with Angela, who was just re-elected to the Board from the community -- to the Board of the Foundation, with more than twice the votes of the person who didn't make it. 
Of course, the vote ended up being about 85 to 18, so there was no real danger to our democratic processes. 
It strikes me that much of the textbooks that are used to educate our children are inherently biased. 
Have you found Wikipedia being used by teachers, and how do you see Wikipedia changing education? 
It builds on the storyline of bloggers versus newspapers. 
I sent it from my Harvard email address, because I was recently appointed a fellow there. 
And so the Wiki books project is an effort to do that. 
In the jungles of Guatemala, in Tikal, stands a temple. 
His name was Jasaw Chan K'awiil. 
He lived into his 80s, and he was buried beneath this monument in 720 AD. 
They've never found a society that did not have it. 
It was told by an anonymous Kwakiutl Indian of southern Alaska to a missionary in 1896, and here it is. 
It's below your emotions. 
It comes from a David Mamet play, and there's two con artists in the play, and the woman is conning the man, and the man looks at the woman and says, Oh, you're a bad pony, I'm not going to bet on you. 
So, what have I learned from this experiment that I would like to tell the world? 
Too old, too young, too scruffy, too stupid, and they won't do it. 
And in fact, sometimes I feel a little sorry for the chicken on my dinner plate, when I think of how intense this brain system is. 
And so, I've spent the last three years on this. 
And so, there's one thing that makes me pursue my understanding of human nature, and this reminds me of it. 
Women tend to get intimacy differently than men do. 
 What is the weather in Cincinnati?   What is the time in Tokyo?   Who is this little child's daddy?   And who the hell needs to know?   Why do memories of you linger   when I'm trying to reach my goal?   And why must I move my fingers   to the music in my soul?   I don't know.   I don't have to know.   'Cause here I go ...   and I got all the answers   right here in my hand.   And I got all the answers   and I don't have to understand   'cause I got all the answers.   Think I'll rummage through the century   while I listen to the sea.   Oh, it's good to be so free,   so free.   Who was mayor of Chicago   back in 1964?   And why did Shakespeare create Iago   to tear apart a love so pure?   How can my dreams be so vivid   in a psychosonic way?   Why must I become so livid   about the news I hear today?   I don't know.   I don't have to know.   And here I go ...   'cause I got all the answers   right here in my hand.   And I got all the answers.   See, I don't have to understand   'cause I got all the answers.   I think I'll browse on through   the tabloid news   while I sip my tea.   Mm, it's good to be so free.    I never ever have to be alone.   I can do it all right here in my home.   Yeah, mm-hmm ...   Everything that's ever been known,   I can punch it up right here on my phone.   Freedom train, coming soon   right here in my living room   from Baton Rouge to Saskatoon   and all points in between.   'Cause I got all the answers   right here on my screen.   And I got all the answers, yeah.   I got every book and magazine.   I got all, I got all, I got all ...   I got all the answers,   all the answers, oh yeah.   Uh-huh ...   But I tell you what I'm going to do:   I'm going to find the capitol of Peru   or the latitude of Kathmandu.   I'm gonna Google it   'cause everybody's doing it.   And then I'll rummage through the century.   I got all, I got all, I got all ...   I got all the answers.   Yeah, yeah   I got all the answers.   Thank you. 
So this is called Tembererana. 
It's based on an Argentinian rhythm called carnivalito. 
Yves uses his body to steer the wing. 
Commentator: There's that 90 degree turn you're talking about, taking him out. 
And his equipment as well. 
How did you start to become Jetman? 
And that's the nearest thing to the dream. 
When I exit full of kerosene, I'm about 55 kilos. 
For example, last winter I began with kite surfing -- so new things. 
Because this is -- I'm quite an experienced manager of systems as a pilot, but this is really -- you need fluidity, you need to be agile and also to adapt really fast. 
So I was at my minimum altitude in that vector -- fast -- so I pulled that. 
Exactly. There is a rescue parachute for the wing for two reasons: so I can repair it afterward and especially so nobody takes that, just on his head. 
This is risky stuff indeed. 
I assume you have standards. 
Let's not tell you employer. 
Have you ever seen tandem birds? 
It seems a little bit crazy, but it's not. 
Thanks to the increasing technology, better technology, it will be safe. 
They wished they knew how to prevent their food supply from sometimes failing, and how they could rest when they were tired without risking starvation, be warmer, cooler, safer, in less pain. 
But they failed, almost completely, to make any. 
Discoveries like fire happened so rarely, that from an individual's point of view, the world never improved. 
Within 40 years, physicists discovered the whole explanation, expressed, as usual, in elegant symbols. 
But that ability to make progress remained almost unused, until the event that revolutionized the human condition and changed the universe. 
But that can't be what made the difference. 
And that rarely, if ever, caused anything like the Scientific Revolution. 
At the time, what they thought distinguished science was a radical idea about things unseen, known as empiricism. 
In what language? Certainly not the language of mathematics, in which, Galileo rightly said, the book of nature is written. 
By the way, why don't we do that? 
We don't see those nuclear reactions in stars. 
Some rocks and some finches. 
What we see, in all these cases, bears no resemblance to the reality that we conclude is responsible -- only a long chain of theoretical reasoning and interpretation connects them. 
That myth is testable. 
It's equally testable. 
The search for hard-to-vary explanations is the origin of all progress. 
One is well known: untestable theories. 
Could you put your hand up if you wear glasses or contact lenses, or you've had laser refractive surgery? 
The problem is, there aren't enough eye care professionals in the world to use the model of the delivery of corrective eyewear that we have in the developed world. 
There are just way too few eye care professionals. 
So, I've now made eye glasses to my prescription. 
He went through this old-growth forest and sat up beside this 400-year-old culturally modified tree and went to sleep. 
Please enjoy. 
But this glacier caved into the water and a seal got on it. 
They're going to get to land. 
But unfortunately, 95 percent of the glaciers in the Arctic are also receding right now to the point that the ice is ending up on land and not injecting any ice back into the ecosystem. 
These ringed seals also live out their entire life cycle associated and connected to sea ice. 
Here's me in my office. 
After an hour in these conditions, it's so extreme that, when I go down, almost every dive I vomit into my regulator because my body can't deal with the stress of the cold on my head. 
I get to hand my camera to my assistant, and I'm looking up at him, and I'm going, Woo. Woo. Woo. 
It could have survived 150 years of whaling. 
When I'm on my deathbed, I'm going to remember one story more than any other. 
As a species, as humans, we like to say penguins are really cute, therefore, leopard seals eat them, so leopard seals are ugly and bad. 
It just sees this big balloon in the ocean -- it doesn't have hands -- it's going to take a little bite, the boat pops, and off they go. 
I'm with my Swedish assistant and guide. 
It's time for you to get in the water. 
Why else would she release these penguins at me? 
Because she can't believe I can't eat this penguin. 
She's about to let me know she's too frustrated with me. 
What had happened was another seal had snuck in behind me, and she did that to threat display. 
And I'm so passionate about it. 
They go to see Michelangelo's David, and when they finally come face to face with the statue, they both freeze dead in their tracks. 
If you know about this trait, you can understand a lot of puzzles about human behavior. 
When the liberal team loses, as it did in 2004, and as it almost did in 2000, we comfort ourselves. 
Developmental psychology has shown that kids come into the world already knowing so much about the physical and social worlds, and programmed to make it really easy for them to learn certain things and hard to learn others. 
Here are the results. 
So, as you see, people care about harm and care issues. 
You picked a particular breed, you learned some new information about the breed. 
In the first panel, we see the moment of creation. 
It shoots up and it keeps going up. 
I think that's probably right, although this is a controversial issue. 
It's just a lot of rock, and then a lot of water and wind, and a lot of time, and you get the Grand Canyon. 
So liberals speak for the weak and oppressed. 
You have the markings of Shiva on the right, Shiva's the liberal god. And they work together. 
But as we learned from Samantha Power, in her story about Sergio Vieira de Mello, you can't just go charging in, saying, You're wrong, and I'm right. 
If Australia had to send a thousand people tomorrow to West Papua for example, we don't have a thousand police officers hanging around that could just go tomorrow and we do have a thousand soldiers that could go. 
So when we have to send someone, we send the military -- because they're there, they're available and, heck, they're used to going off and doing these things and living by themselves and not having all this extra support. 
One particular thing that's come up that I am especially interested in is the question of whether, when we're sending military personnel to do these sorts of jobs, we ought to be equipping them differently, and in particular, whether we ought to be giving them access to some of the sorts of non-lethal weapons that police have. 
Military personnel are being trained for war, so they're trained that, as soon as things go bad, their first response is lethal force. 
And of course, being Australian, I started looking at stuff in Australia, knowing, again, from my own experience about various times when non-lethal weapons have been introduced in Australia. 
This is something they can use instead of a firearm in those situations where they would have previously had to shoot someone. 
This was something explicitly introduced to be an alternative to firearms, but it's being routinely used to deal with a whole range of other sorts of problems. 
Now one of the particular issues that comes up with military use of non-lethal weapons -- and people when they're actually saying, Well hey, there might be some problems -- there's a couple of particular problems that get focused on. 
You have to be careful about who you're shooting at. 
They were holding something like 700 people hostage. 
And it's no surprise that people died, because you don't know how much of this gas each person is going to inhale, what position they're going to fall in when they become unconscious and so on. 
The person who's spraying the O.C. spray is wearing a rubber glove to make sure they don't get contaminated and so on. 
Just in case you think it's only going to happen in the United States, it happened in Canada as well. 
And a colleague of mine sent me this one from London. 
I looked at it. I was really surprised. 
So if you have these problems with police officers with non-lethal weapons, what on earth would make you think it's going to be better with military personnel? 
What would these guys have done if they'd had access to Tasers or to a manned, portable version of the Active Denial System -- a small heat ray that you can use on people and not worry about it. 
And here he'll explain a little bit about what it does. 
And I found this old video. 
With our strengths and our minds and spirit, we gather, we form, and we fashion. 
This particular reel -- it's an industrial video -- but it was shown in drive-in theaters in 1961 -- in the Detroit area, in fact -- and it preceded Alfred Hitchcock's Psycho. 
And when I sat down next to him, he was telling me about a company he formed, and he was building some robots for automobile factories to move things around on the factory floor. 
Now the other thing that I think is taking off, another reason making is taking off today, is there's some great new tools out there. 
So they're the brains of maker projects, and here's an example of one. 
These guys came up with a kit version for 750 dollars, and that means that hobbyists and ordinary folks can get a hold of this and begin playing with 3D printers. 
Isn't that cool? 
Well he did a little bit better than free. 
So, we all think we know what glamour is. Here it is. 
It's glamorous movie stars, like Marlene Dietrich. 
Fantastic, glamorous pictures of steel mills and paper mills and all kinds of glamorous industrial places. 
You had a glamour. 
There is a process of idealization, glorification and dramatization, and it's not just the case for people. 
Glamour doesn't have to be people. 
It puts you into this special, special world. 
She's not looking away from you exactly, but you have to mentally imagine her world. 
She's encouraging you to contemplate this higher world to which she belongs, where she can be completely tranquil while holding the iron instruments of her death by torture. 
This sort of streamlining styling is not just glamorous because we associate it with movies of that period, but because, in it's streamlining, it transports us from the everyday. 
To conceal all art and make whatever is done or said appear to be without effort: And this is one of the critical aspects of glamour. 
But if you look in a catalog -- particularly a catalog of modern, beautiful objects for your home -- it looks like this. 
Part of the thing is that, in Rear Window, the question is, is she too glamorous to live in his world? 
And the answer is no, but of course it's really just a movie. 
So, this session's supposed to be about pure pleasure but glamour's really partly about meaning. 
The perfect love life -- symbolized by the perfect necklace, the perfect diamond ring. 
This is an interior design firm that is literally called Utopia. 
But there's a kind of wonder in the stuff that gets edited away in the cords of life. 
David Hockney talks about how the appreciation of this very glamorous painting is heightened if you think about the fact that it takes two weeks to paint this splash, which only took a fraction of a second to happen. 
But I also knew how hard they worked all week. 
But as a scientist, I'm interested in a different problem of other minds, and that is the one I'm going to introduce to you today. 
And then finally, to show that some of the differences between people, in how we judge others, can be explained by differences in this brain system. 
Child: What? RS: Pirates really like cheese sandwiches. 
This pirate is called Joshua. 
Now I'm going to show you a three-year-old who got the same puzzle. 
So the three-year-old does two things differently. 
And second, when he sees Ivan taking the sandwich where he left his, where we would say he's taking that one because he thinks it's his, the three-year-old comes up with another explanation: He's not taking his own sandwich because he doesn't want it, because now it's dirty, on the ground. 
So that's why he's taking the other sandwich. 
And we can see the continuation of this process of learning to think about other people's thoughts by upping the ante and asking children now, not for an action prediction, but for a moral judgment. 
Remember the five-year-old completely understood why Ivan took Joshua's sandwich. 
Was Ivan being mean and naughty for taking Joshua's sandwich? 
He says the wind should get in trouble for switching the sandwiches. 
And so what we wanted to know was, could differences among adults in how they think about other people's thoughts be explained in terms of differences in this brain region? 
And her friend drinks the coffee, and is fine. 
And what you can see is, on the left when there was very little activity in this brain region, people paid little attention to her innocent belief and said she deserved a lot of blame for the accident. 
First, I'm going to show you that this is a magnetic pulse. 
I'm going to show you what happens when you put a quarter on the machine. 
But in the case of a failed attempt to harm, where Grace thought that it was poison, although it was really sugar, people now say it was more okay, she deserves less blame for putting the powder in the coffee. 
So it's not a surreptitious technology. 
So I've got one last question. There is this thing called the hard problem of consciousness, that puzzles a lot of people. 
Why? 
Me was composed of stories, of cravings, of strivings, of desires of the future. 
Me only existed in the trying. 
Babies actually don't come out of your mouth. 
I would drive it and demand things from it. 
I didn't heed it; no, I organized it and I directed it. 
I took more than my body had to offer. 
Cancer exploded the wall of my disconnection. 
Now I am swimming in it. 
So we brought her home, and I prayed that the oil wouldn't wash up on her beach before she died. 
And I said, But what's the water part? 
It was my whole self melting into Michaela's lap. 
It was finding my place and the huge responsibility that comes with connection. 
It was energy, love and joy. 
It was all these things. 
Because everyone these days wants to know how to slow down, but they want to know how to slow down really quickly. So ... 
So I was in New York recently, and I walked past a gym that had an advertisement in the window for a new course, a new evening course. 
You know, a burnout, or eventually the body says, I can't take it anymore, and throws in the towel. 
Am I really in such a hurry that I'm prepared to fob off my son with a sound byte at the end of the day? 
I just thought, and I thought long and hard. 
And by the time I got off that plane, I'd decided I wanted to do something about it. 
Time is scarce, so what do we do? 
And I guess that the question is, is it possible to break free from that mindset? 
And, in this kind of cauldron of moments and places and acts of deceleration, lie what a lot of people now refer to as the International Slow Movement. 
You know, you tap into that -- those deeper, sort of, psychological, emotional, spiritual currents, and you get a better orgasm with the buildup. 
I mean, you heard that I got a speeding ticket while I was researching my book on the benefits of slowness, and that's true, but that's not all of it. 
I think there's a kind of metaphysical dimension -- that speed becomes a way of walling ourselves off from the bigger, deeper questions. 
We fill our head with distraction, with busyness, so that we don't have to ask, am I well? Am I happy? Are my children growing up right? 
It's become my reward at the end of the day, something I really cherish. 
I was downstairs by the front door, and I was waiting for a taxi, and my son came down the stairs and he'd made a card for me. And he was carrying it. 
So, what I'd like to talk about is something that was very dear to Kahn's heart, which is: how do we discover what is really particular about a project? 
This used to be an island -- Ackerman Island -- and we filled in the channel during the Depression to create jobs. 
And here's the building as it opened, with a channel overlooking downtown, and as seen from downtown. 
Every piece of the building works. 
I was very moved by what I saw today. 
Let's get back to the town and walk to the site. 
And, as things are a little easier in India, the site was purchased within a week and we were working. 
And the structures rise from the sand cliffs -- they're built in concrete and sandstones; the roofs are stainless steel -- they are facing south and reflecting light towards the temple itself, pedestrians crisscross from one side to the other. 
Back to Yad Vashem three years ago. After all this episode began, Yad Vashem decided to rebuild completely the historic museum because now Washington was built -- the Holocaust Museum in Washington -- and that museum is so much more comprehensive in terms of information. 
They said, Let's rebuild the museum. 
And here studying, in three dimensions, how to give some kind, again, of order, a structure; not something you feel you could just change because you stop the design of that particular process. 
I'd like to conclude by relating all of what I've said to the term beauty. 
We call a natural object beautiful because we see that its form expresses fitness, the perfect fulfillment of function. 
Nevertheless, beauty as the kind of fit; something that tells us that all the forces that have to do with our natural environment have been fulfilled -- and our human environment -- for that. 
He who seeks truth shall find beauty. He who seeks beauty shall find vanity. 
He who considers himself the servant of his fellow beings shall find the joy of self-expression. He who seeks self-expression shall fall into the pit of arrogance. 
My name is Kailash. And I like to enrich lives through technicolored glass. 
A rising tide lifts all boats. 
It felt like it was really important. 
I just really wanted to acknowledge you. 
It is really a sacred space. 
See, these all lie right inside of this general emotional palette that we were painting. 
The only way that I would say it was a mistake is in that we didn't react to it. 
It was an opportunity that was missed. 
So, it's just a season. And there are two seasons in most of South Asia. 
High pressure builds over India. 
A few kilometers, maybe, is quite typical. 
And this is called the Globe Skimmer, or Wandering Glider. 
But it really hasn't been studied very much. 
It's a rather mediocre looking dragonfly. 
If you're going to study dragonflies, you want to study those really bright beautiful ones, like that red one. Or the really rare ones, the endemic endangered ones. 
And they were there for some time. And then they were gone. 
And I didn't think anything more of it until the following year, when it happened again, and then the year after that, and then the year after that. 
And on top of the coral reefs are sand banks. 
Those of you who are Indian or spent your childhood here, let me have a show of hands, who of you -- not yet, not yet! 
So, are these things, how are these things getting here? 
It stretches about 500 miles, of course it's India here. 
When do you see the dragonflies appear? 
And then the southernmost Maldives. 
So, I started a very rigorous scientific process. 
It doesn't make sense. There is nothing for them in Maldives. 
And we're starting in June. So this is the monsoon rain. 
Nothing for these dragonflies. There is no more seasonal rain. 
They're looking for somewhere to breed. If it rains here they'll breed. 
They'll hatch out in six weeks. By that time the seasonal rains have moved on. It's not there, it's down here. 
They'll fly down here. And the clever thing is the wind is always converging to where the rain is. 
So, the little fellow that hatches out here, he gets up into the air, he is automatically carried to where the rain is falling. 
So, in four generations, one, two, three, four and then back. 
A complete circuit of the Indian Ocean. 
There is more to the story. 
Which is an area along the Amur River, which is up here. 
He's an engineer. 
Half as much money was spent on this Norden bombsight as was spent on the most famous military-industrial project of the modern era. 
It allowed you to bomb only those things that you absolutely needed and wanted to bomb. 
And it's carried in a box with a canvas shroud over it. 
It's never allowed to be photographed. 
There are clouds, right. 
The Leuna chemical plant, after one of the most extensive bombings in the history of the war, was up and running within weeks. 
So I would like to invite you, also, for a while, to the Himalayas themselves. 
And to show the place where meditators, like me, who began with being a molecular biologist in Pasteur Institute, and found their way to the mountains. 
I just wrote an essay on happiness, and there was a controversy. 
As Pascal said, even the one who hangs himself, somehow, is looking for cessation of suffering -- he finds no other way. 
Although we want to avoid suffering, it seems we are running somewhat towards it. 
And that can also come from some kind of confusions. 
It is something that -- changes of nature. 
It is a deep sense of serenity and fulfillment, a state that actually pervades and underlies all emotional states, and all the joys and sorrows that can come one's way. 
Can we have this kind of well-being while being sad? In a way, why not? 
But there's also wicked joy, you can rejoice in someone's suffering. 
We know, by experience, that we can be what we call a little paradise, and yet, be completely unhappy within. 
The experience that translates everything is within the mind. 
We have to know from ourselves, there are certain states of mind that are conducive to this flourishing, to this well-being, what the Greeks called eudaimonia, flourishing. 
Just the mere fact of doing that fills such a sense of adequation with our deep nature. 
For that we have to ask, what is nature of mind? 
And if we look from the experiential point of view, there is a primary quality of consciousness that's just the mere fact to be cognitive, to be aware. 
Usually, when we feel annoyed, hatred or upset with someone, or obsessed with something, the mind goes again and again to that object. 
But we think we could sit on the cloud -- but if you go there, it's just mist. 
Mind transformation -- that is the very meaning of meditation. 
So that's what those great meditators have been doing. 
If you are happy about something, you'll go more to the left side. 
Here, the -0.5 is the full standard deviation of a meditator who meditated on compassion. 
So, I've no time to go into all the different scientific results. 
Some meditators, without trying to stop it, but simply by being completely open, thinking that that bang is just going to be just a small event like a shooting star, they are able not to move at all. 
So the whole point of that is not, sort of, to make, like, a circus thing of showing exceptional beings who can jump, or whatever. 
We are ready to spend 15 years achieving education. 
I'm not going to show you a presentation. I'm going to talk to you. 
The thing that was always striking to me was that we as people could have so many really amazing ideas about things we'd like to do, but are so often unable, in the real world, to actually do those things -- to actually cobble together the materials and go through the actual execution phase of building something that you imagine from a design perspective. 
It's going to be different than here. 
To give you an idea of scale, Second Life is about 20,000 CPUs at this point. 
And let me justify that with two statements. 
And I think that's something that people have talked about for 20 years -- you know, that 3D, that lifelike environments are really important in some magical way to us. 
Second Life originally had 16 simulators. It now has 20,000. 
And we had -- we zoned it, you know: we put a nightclub, we put a disco where you could dance, and then we had a place where you could fight with guns if you wanted to, and we had another place that was like a boardwalk, kind of a Coney Island. 
And so the existence of an economy is critical. 
The question is, there appears to be a lack of cultural fine-tuning in Second Life. 
And so, the multicultural nature and the sort of cultural melting pot that's happening inside Second Life is quite -- I think, quite remarkable relative to what in real human terms in the real world we've ever been able to achieve. 
Other questions? Right here. 
What's your demographic? 
In terms of psychographic -- oh, men and women: men and women are almost equally matched in Second Life, so about 45 percent of the people online right now on Second Life are women. 
In terms of psychographic, you know, the people in Second Life are remarkably dissimilar relative to what you might think, when you go in and talk to them and meet them, and I would, you know, challenge you to just do this and find out. 
If you count, yeah, cities. So -- but I did -- and I didn't do -- I think I didn't do as well in school as I could have. I think you're right. 
Yeah, so let me restate that. 
So, you're saying that in the pamphlet there's a statement that we may come to prefer our digital selves to our real ones -- our more malleable or manageable digital identities to our real identities -- and that in fact, much of human life and human experience may move into the digital realm. 
That's a frightening change, frightening disruption. 
I guess, and you're asking, what do I think about that? How do I -- JH: What's your response to the people who would say, that's horrifying? 
(Audience: If someone would say to you, I find that disturbing, what would be your response?) PR: Well, I'd say a couple of things. 
Now, the problem of human diversity, like all big scientific questions -- how do you explain something like that -- can be broken down into sub-questions. 
What we're asking about though is human ancestry. 
Digging things up out of the ground, and largely on the basis of morphology -- the way things are shaped, often skull shape -- saying, This looks a little bit more like us than that, so this must be my ancestor. 
You think you've got a tough job? 
Now, a quick primer on DNA. 
Mitochondrial DNA, tracing a purely maternal line of descent. 
Turn them on their sides, combine them so that they look like a tree with the root at the bottom and the branches going up. 
Was it millions of years ago, which we might suspect by looking at all this incredible variation around the world? 
Why was it that we seem to have come out of Africa so recently? 
What was going on to the world's weather around 60,000 years ago? 
The reason for that is that ice actually sucks moisture out of the atmosphere. 
Now, at the risk of offending any paleoanthropologists or physical anthropologists in the audience, basically there's not a lot of change between these two stone tool groups. 
Well, you want the ultimate African success story? 
Look in the mirror. You're it. The reason you're alive today is because of those changes in our brains that took place in Africa -- probably somewhere in the region where we're sitting right now, around 60, 70 thousand years ago -- allowing us not only to survive in Africa, but to expand out of Africa. 
These would have been savannah hunters. 
Entering Europe around 35,000 years ago, and finally, a small group migrating up through the worst weather imaginable, Siberia, inside the Arctic Circle, during the last ice age -- temperature was at -70, -80, even -100, perhaps -- migrating into the Americas, ultimately reaching that final frontier. 
The changes that allowed us to do that, the evolution of this highly adaptable brain that we all carry around with us, allowing us to create novel cultures, allowing us to develop the diversity that we see on a whirlwind trip like the one I've just been on. 
The field research that we're doing around the world with indigenous peoples. 
The Human Genome Project, or a Mars Rover mission. 
In this case, you actually can. 
And you'll now see the yolk and the white have separated. 
And we all know in our heart of hearts that this is not the way the universe works. 
And yet, look around us. 
Now we move forward 380,000 years. 
But that's not completely true. 
Recent studies by satellites such as the WMAP satellite have shown that, in fact, there are just tiny differences in that background. 
We have our first stars. 
So we've crossed a fourth threshold of complexity. 
So, it copies itself and scatters the templates through the ocean. 
And that's why, as a species, we're so creative and so powerful, and that's why we have a history. 
And then from about 500 years ago, humans began to link up globally through shipping, through trains, through telegraph, through the Internet, until now we seem to form a single global brain of almost seven billion individuals. 
We've been on a journey, a return journey, of 13.7 billion years. 
And it's a story in which humans play an astonishing and creative role. 
Collective learning is a very, very powerful force, and it's not clear that we humans are in charge of it. 
The program, in a sense, is an example of behavioral finance on steroids -- how we could really use behavioral finance. 
How many of you have iPhones? 
And that's what I really want to focus on today. 
And what I'm going to talk about today is Save More Tomorrow. 
First thing to notice is, half of them do not even have access to a 401 plan. 
And they get overwhelmed and the just don't join. 
Suppose we had another wonderful TED event next week. 
The same people that imagined themselves eating the bananas ended up eating chocolates a week later. 
Self-control is not a problem in the future. 
Nobody checks boxes. 
We're going to talk about what happens if people are overwhelmed and scared to make their 401 choices. 
They're really mad. 
We first implemented it, Richard Thaler and I, back in 1998. 
We invited them to save three percentage points more every time they get a pay raise. 
We're seeing here a three and a half-year period, four pay raises, people who were struggling to save, were saving three percent of their paycheck, three and a half years later saving almost four times as much, almost 14 percent. 
It's been part of the Pension Protection Act. 
The average household spends $4,000 a year on lottery tickets. 
One, two, three, four. 
 Everyone is crying at the dread hypnotic flying   of the bee of the bird of the moth.   You can't walk, you can't ramble   'cause you're gonna have to scramble   from the bee of the bird of the moth.   Catbird is a cat   but he's got bugness in his veins.   Manhouse lives within himself   with thoughtful human brains.   Neither one is equal   to the challenge of the freak we'll call   the bee of the bird of the moth.   Now the moth   defeats the mouse and man.   It's messing with the plan.   It can't be believed   'cause it's just a hummingbird moth   who's acting like the bird   that thinks it's a bee.   Got a brand new shipment   of electrical equipment   it's addressed to the bottom of the sea.   Send a tangerine-colored   nuclear submarine   with a sticker that says STP.   Windshield wiper washer fluid   spraying in the air ...   headlights under head lice   under hats lie everywhere.   Subatomic waves   to the underwater caves   of the bee of the bird of the moth.   Now the moth defeats the mouse and man.   It's messing with the plan.   It can't be believed   'cause it's just a hummingbird moth   who's acting like a bird   that thinks it's a bee.   Is it us or is this messed up?   Everyone's deforming   in the presence of the swarming   of the bee of the bird of the moth.   Protozoa, snakes and horses   have enlisted in the forces   of the bee of bird of the moth.   Catbug is a cat   but he's got bugness in his veins.   Manhouse lives within himself   with thoughtful human brains.   Neither one is equal   to the challenge of the freak we'll call   the bee of the bird of the moth.   Thanks a lot. 
This song is called Fingertips. 
This is Eleanor Roosevelt. 
Well, I think we're going to stop that part of the show. 
Here's a song we like to think of as the future anthem of TED. 
And the third said, Let's find another director. 
So how many people who saw the film did not get that here was a woman in love, that she was completely innocent and saw great joy in her life, and she was youthful? 
And how many of you did not get that? 
It's a symbolic gesture. I tear up the script, I go and I panic myself, I get scared. 
Get rid of your mind. 
In Delhi, we used to live -- we used to call it a chhat or the khota. 
And I don't know why, but I remember the story. 
There was a woodcutter who's about to take his ax and chop a piece of wood, and the whole galaxy is one atom of that ax. 
And when that ax hits that piece of wood, that's when everything will destroy and the Big Bang will happen again. 
But all before that there was a woodcutter. 
So every time, I could tell my story again and again and get over this problem, and so I got over the problem. 
If we do not create the stories, we probably go mad. 
Are you with child? 
You ask my permission before you rut, before you breed. 
Elizabeth: This man has seduced a ward of the queen, and she has married without royal consent. 
Remember the word I said, suck up. 
But I can go on about telling you how we evolve stories, and how stories effectively are who we are and how these get translated into the particular discipline that I am in, which is film. 
We're born for them. 
The children's television host Mr. Rogers always carried in his wallet a quote from a social worker that said, Frankly, there isn't anyone you couldn't learn to love once you've heard their story. 
And the way I like to interpret that is probably the greatest story commandment, which is Make me care -- please, emotionally, intellectually, aesthetically, just make me care. 
And so if I were going to give you the ending of this story, it would go something like this: And that's what ultimately led me to speaking to you here at TED about story. 
He insisted, no embalming, no open coffin, no funeral. 
It didn't happen to me, it happened to somebody else, but it's going to be worth your time. 
 And that is all   that love's about   And we'll recall   when time runs out   That it only   AS: Storytelling without dialogue. 
It confirmed something I really had a hunch on, is that the audience actually wants to work for their meal. 
And it's something that always drove all his choices. 
Wall-E's was to find the beauty. 
Sometimes you can make some horrible choices with them. 
But a major threshold is passed when you mature enough to acknowledge what drives you and to take the wheel and steer it. 
And that's why change is fundamental in story. 
And it's interesting to see how that led us places that were actually pretty good. 
And we got a hold of that fax. 
And when an artist does that to another artist, it's like you're compelled to pass it on. 
I was going to help alleviate poverty. 
We paid two to three times more than anybody else. 
We may have some innovative, new ideas. 
There's no more of it. 
This is where we stand today. 
And then we need to use less again. 
Okay, so let's be generous. 
How do you evaluate all the scientific data around a product, the data that's changing on a weekly, if not a daily, basis? 
How is a consumer going to walk through this minefield? 
These are the 15 commodities that fundamentally pose the biggest threats to these places because of deforestation, soil loss, water use, pesticide use, over-fishing, etc. 
Are we going to work with 1.5 billion producers? 
If we work with those, if we change those companies and the way they do business, then the rest will happen automatically. 
Because if these companies demand sustainable products, they'll pull 40 to 50 percent of production. 
By companies asking for this, we can leverage production so much faster than by waiting for consumers to do it. 
After 40 years, the global organic movement has achieved 0.7 of one percent of global food. 
We can't wait that long. 
We need change that's going to accelerate. 
So it's the demand that brings them to the table. 
So we're pulling out all the stops. 
They're doing it with IBM and the USDA, and they're putting it in the public domain because they want everybody to have access to this data, because they want everybody to help them make cocoa more productive and more sustainable. 
If you divide the amount of water into what the farmer was paid, the farmer didn't receive enough money to pay a decent price for water in any of those commodities. 
This is called bundling. It's bringing those externalities back into the price of the commodity. 
We can't just focus on identifying the best; we've got to move the rest. 
And I'm honored to meet you, the future leaders of Great Britain and this world. 
And my mother, the most important role model in my life, who lives with us at the White House and helps to care for our two little daughters, Malia and Sasha. 
That's why all of this that you're going through -- the ups and the downs, the teachers that you love and the teachers that you don't -- why it's so important. 
And having done so, these women moved many obstacles. 
I liked being smart. 
I liked being on time. I liked getting my work done. 
History proves that it doesn't matter whether you come from a council estate or a country estate. 
In the White House, there's the desk that he sits at -- it's called the Resolute desk. 
She is a world-class soprano singer who studied in Rochester, New York. 
For me, the human voice is the vessel on which all emotions travel -- except perhaps jealousy. 
When you're totally in the moment, when I'm totally in the moment, the vessel of expression is open. 
The emotions can flow from me to you and back. 
It's called Aria. 
For example, there are different colors and each color gets a different type of singing -- pop, country and western, opera, jazz -- and you just have to be consistent with that color. 
They had one great limitation and one great freedom as they tried to conceive of a global network. 
So unusual, in fact, that it was said that it's not clear the Internet could work. 
Now, of course, in a mosh pit it's hard to specify a destination. 
This is a system that relies on kindness and trust, which also makes it very delicate and vulnerable. 
So, for example, last year, the government of Pakistan asked its Internet service providers there to prevent citizens of Pakistan from seeing YouTube. 
And here is the message where one of them says, Looks like we've got a live one. We have a hijacking of YouTube! 
And today, Wikipedia is so ubiquitous that you can now find it on Chinese restaurant menus. 
I am not making this up. 
And there are a bunch of people who, on a sunny day, would rather be inside and monitoring this, the administrator's notice board, itself a wiki page that anyone can edit. 
There are spambots crawling it, trying to turn every article into an ad for a Rolex watch. 
It's something they feel impelled to do because they care about it. 
Here is just a snapshot of some of them. 
If you do, it will be removed immediately, removed by people who may have disagreed with the original decision, but respect the outcome and work to make it stay because they believe in something bigger than their own opinion. 
I mean, this is a 2005 Business Week cover. 
Yeah, I know. Number four, it's like, can you imagine coming home to that cat everyday? 
This one says, Bucolic meadow with split-rail fence. 
And then have technology that the person taking the photo will know later, this person requested to be contacted before this goes anywhere big, if you don't mind. 
And that person taking the photo can make a decision about how and whether to respect it. 
And we now have means that we can build, like this system, so that people can report the filtering as they encounter it. 
Why? There is the Craigslist rideshare board. 
If it were called the Craigslist hitchhiking board, tumbleweeds would be blowing through it. 
But it's the rideshare board, and it's basically the same thing. 
It's a bee that, yes, flies. 
We all live in the same planet, but there's still a great deal of poverty in the world. 
And by and large, this has failed. 
Aid actually did the opposite. 
So 12 years ago, I was trying to be an investment banker in New York. 
And it reminded me of a day in 1971. 
And after all, poor countries, like rich countries, one thing we've got equal, is their days are the same length: 24 hours. 
The question was, how much did it cost to install a new telephone in Bangladesh? 
It turns out: 2,000 dollars. 
And of course, if the cost of installing a telephone is going down, because there's a digital revolution going on, then it would be even more dramatic. 
But in any event, it's connectivity that leads to dependability. 
There were a lot of reasons people told me why we don't have enough telephones. 
The work pays them a salary; the salary allows them to pay for the car over time. 
The car pays for itself. 
See, you need some kind of infrastructure to bring a new thing. 
For instance, the Internet was booming in the U.S. 
And she sells the milk to the villagers, and pays off the loan. 
And these phones are generating about 100 million dollars for the company. 
It's just an experiment. 
I was a guest student during one month of a public health course. 
They read the textbook twice, or three times or four times. 
And they were the first to Twitter transatlantically. 
Those are nice words. But I got sort of curious of what he meant with liberty, and liberty for whom. 
But really, really natural sovereignty was good for Japan. 
In 1947 India finally gained its independence. 
You can see that the health started to improve. 
In '92 India follows with a market reform. 
And they go quite closely together, and you can see that the similarity with India and China, in many ways, are greater than the differences with them. 
Kerala is flying on top there, matching United States in health, but not in economy. 
We have an enormous disparity in the world. 
You see, China under foreign domination actually lowered their income and came down to the Indian level here. 
Japan did it like this, until full catch up, and then they follow with the other high-income economies. 
Can be worse, can be better. 
But more recently, I've been turning my attention to the universe on the largest scale. 
By invisible, I mean it doesn't absorb in the electromagnetic spectrum. 
When those measurements are made, instead what we find is that the speed is basically constant, as a function of distance. 
In fact, this galaxy and every other galaxy appears to be embedded in a cloud of this invisible dark matter. 
It would be nice if we could see this dark matter a little bit more directly. 
Now, how do we deduce where the galaxy is? 
Where will this observer see the galaxy? 
So there's a whole ray of light -- rays of light on a cone -- that will all be bent by that cluster and make it into the observer's eye. 
So, actually, at home, whenever we break a wineglass, I save the bottom, take it over to the machine shop. 
We shave it off, and I have a little gravitational lens, OK. 
And we see these gravitational lensing effects, these distortions that say that, again, clusters are embedded in dark matter. 
They're moving away from each other because space itself is getting bigger, OK. 
So, in the last century, OK, people debated about whether this expansion of space would continue forever; whether it would slow down, you know, will be slowing down, but continue forever; slow down and stop, asymptotically stop; or slow down, stop, and then reverse, so it starts to contract again. 
By how much less is it expanding today, compared to, say, a couple of billion years ago? 
So we need something to be able to explain that. 
But we don't know if either of those are actually the dark matter candidate, OK. 
They haven't seen anything, OK, but it puts limits on what the mass and the interaction strength of these dark matter particles are. 
There's going to be a satellite telescope launched later this year and it will look towards the middle of the galaxy, to see if we can see dark matter particles annihilating and producing gamma rays that could be detected with this. 
Now, unfortunately, there is a lot of new physics whose signature could be missing energy, so it will be hard to tell the difference. 
And finally, for future endeavors, there are telescopes being designed specifically to address the questions of dark matter and dark energy -- ground-based telescopes, and there are three space-based telescopes that are in competition right now to be launched to investigate dark matter and dark energy. 
And over the course of half an hour, not one syringe was filmed being unwrapped. 
They started with two and they ended with two. 
In China, recycling is a major issue. 
And they use them, in the breaks, for water pistols. 
And they are having great fun. 
And they squirt the water into their mouths. 
You load it up in the normal way. This is made on existing equipment in 14 factories that we license. 
Imagine that orchestration. 
This happens every year. 
And one time he came up to me -- he was about seven or eight years old -- he came up to me. 
And there was a wasp's nest that I had let grow in my yard, right outside my door. 
And like, knock like a woodpecker on my door until I opened it up. 
And I told him, You know, Cody, the wasps actually made that. 
They're the people who make the bullet train. 
And those bumps act like a magnet for water. 
And the fog comes in and it builds up on the tips. 
Now it's reversing that equation, and actually sequestering half a ton of CO2 thanks to the recipe from the coral. 
They actually export water molecules through. 
And those scalloped edges play with flow in such a way that is reduces drag by 32 percent. 
The question is -- biomimicry is an incredibly powerful way to innovate. 
And we are in a long, long line of organisms to come to this planet and ask ourselves, How can we live here gracefully over the long haul? 
Now in order to do this, the design challenge of our century, I think, we need a way to remind ourselves of those geniuses, and to somehow meet them again. 
And we're working with EOL, Encyclopedia of Life, Ed Wilson's TED wish. 
And this is a pretty well-educated audience, so I imagine you all know something about AIDS. 
If you know something more, you probably know that Uganda, to date, is the only country in sub-Saharan Africa that has had success in combating the epidemic. 
But I'm going to use tools and ideas that are familiar to economists to think about a problem that's more traditionally part of public health and epidemiology. 
We see almost no change in sexual behavior. 
AIDS is the same kind of thing. It's costly to avoid AIDS. 
And the way that I'm going to do that is, I'm going to look across areas with different levels of malaria. 
And so people who live in areas with a lot of malaria are going to have lower life expectancy than people who live in areas with limited malaria. 
Even if you only cared about AIDS in Africa, it might still be a good idea to invest in malaria, in combating poor indoor air quality, in improving maternal mortality rates. 
If people have no incentive to avoid AIDS on their own, even if they know everything about the disease, they still may not change their behavior. 
We know they had this campaign. That's how we learn about what works. 
So this is another way to see this. 
So I am going to talk about exports and prices. 
But openness and inter-connectedness, it comes with a cost when we think about disease. I don't think this should be a surprise. 
Areas with a lot of economic activity -- with a lot of roads, with a lot of urbanization -- those areas have higher prevalence than others. 
And what's really, really great about being here is I'm sure that the questions that you guys have are very, very different than the questions that I think up myself. 
It's great being here at TED. 
Their relationship is a love story that feeds the Earth. 
It reminds us that we are a part of nature, and we're not separate from it. 
Well, their answer was, It's all about risk and reward. 
And Chip Taylor, our monarch butterfly expert, he replied, Nothing lasts forever. 
And that blew my mind. 
We were four girls and no boys. 
I don't know if he really meant [that], but it happened. 
Out of 100, 90 are your creation. 
This is about tough policing, equal policing. 
I now went to a prison assignment as a police officer. 
Here I got a prison assignment. 
Obviously, it was. 
And then how did I deal with them? 
The first day when I went in, I didn't know how to look at them. 
I said, Do you pray? Do you want to pray? 
I think that's the bigger change. 
Teachers were prisoners. Teachers were volunteers. 
You want to know more about this, go and see this film, Doing Time, Doing Vipassana. 
Let me wrap it up. 
But the best part is the message that the Yahoo help desk got about 20 minutes later. 
CAPTCHA Project is something that we did here at Carnegie Melllon over 10 years ago, and it's been used everywhere. 
So then I started feeling bad. 
So can we get you to do useful work for those 10 seconds? 
So you start with a book, and then you scan it. 
For example, for things that were written more than 50 years ago, the computer cannot recognize about 30 percent of the words. 
JohnEdwards.com   So we keep on insulting people left and right everyday. 
There are tens of thousands of these. 
Some of them are very cute.  
And it is numbers like these that motivate my research agenda. 
It hasn't yet been launched. It's called Duolingo. 
It started with me posing a question to my graduate student, Severin Hacker. 
Actually it was a forum post. 
Remember, it's a question about JavaScript. 
Okay, so computer translation, not yet good enough. 
We could pay professional language translators to translate the whole Web. 
We could do that. 
If we wanted to translate the other 80 percent into Spanish, it would cost at least 50 million dollars -- and this is at even the most exploited, outsourcing country out there. 
So it would be very expensive. 
For example, in the United States alone, there are over five million people who have paid over $500 for software to learn a new language. 
There's, of course, a lot of very simple sentences on the Web. 
Since all the projects that my group has worked on so far have gotten millions of users, we're hopeful that we'll be able to translate extremely fast with this project. 
So here's the site. 
But then by the end of the decade, the country had fallen back into political instability and mismanagement. 
We the children had gathered at a friend's house. 
I wanted to document on film the 2008 presidential elections. 
And there, I started by searching for the footprints in my childhood. 
The polling stations opened to the voters at 7:00 AM, but voters, eager to take their own political fate into their hands, were starting to line up at 4:00 AM in the morning. 
They were chanting, We want peace. 
Now the uphill battle for Ghana and for Africa is not over, but I have proof that the other side of democracy exists, and that we must not take it for granted. 
That -- you know, I was born thinking about things that way, and I had always been like a little scientist guy. 
And people in the 17th century, they didn't really understand the same way we do about you know, this stuff is a bunch of different kinds of molecules, and we breathe it in for a purpose and all that. 
And Boyle said, bullshit. 
And so, Charles said, I'm going to put up the money give you guys a building, come here and you can meet in the building, but just don't talk about religion in there. 
But experimental science had been tied up with all those things. 
Kary Mullis: They might have done it for the teddy bear, yeah. 
I thought that anybody with any brains will do it that way. 
I was thinking about making my own little rockets. 
That's why I thought, as long as I don't blow my eyes out ... 
I may not care about the fact that it's prohibited from heating this solution. 
I'm sure it's got to do with rockets or it wouldn't be in that manual. 
And it -- they burned. 
At any rate, I bring it up because it's a good story, and he said, tell personal things, you know, and that's a personal -- I was going to tell you about the first night that I met my wife, but that would be too personal, wouldn't it. 
But in the actual process, you get an idea -- like, when I got the idea one night that I could amplify DNA with two oligonucleotides, and I could make lots of copies of some little piece of DNA, you know, the thinking for that was about 20 minutes while I was driving my car, and then instead of going -- I went back and I did talk to people about it, but if I'd listened to what I heard from all my friends who were molecular biologists -- I would have abandoned it. 
But I knew, you'd go into the lab and you'd try to make it work yourself. And then you're the authority, and you can say, I know it works, because right there in that tube is where it happened, and here, on this gel, there's a little band there that I know that's DNA, and that's the DNA I wanted to amplify, so there! So it does work. 
So you have to be honest. 
Now, let's see ... 
They made bigger guns to shoot them down with. 
And the people I'm talking about are people that like -- they say that they're a member of the committee called, say, the Inter-Governmental Panel on Climate Change. 
So the planet should get warmer. 
So the planet is a pretty amazing thing, you know, it's big and horrible -- and big and wonderful, and it does all kinds of things we don't know anything about. 
In New York City, rats are part of commuters' daily lives. 
I was very fond of this space because it's the first massive industrial complex I found on my own that is abandoned. 
The nature had really reclaimed the whole complex. 
I was really frightened at first, but I calmly explained to him that I was working on an art project and he didn't seem to mind and so I went ahead and put my camera on self-timer and ran back and forth. 
That homeless man, to me, really represented an element of the unconscious of the city. 
They were consistently dug as limestone quarries and by the 18th century, the caving-in of some of these quarries posed safety threats, so the government ordered reinforcing of the existing quarries and dug new observation tunnels in order to monitor and map the whole place. 
As you can see, the system is very complex and vast. 
I'm going to try and explain why it is that perhaps we don't understand as much as we think we do. 
I think we agree on that. Where does the tree get the stuff that makes up this chair, right? Where does all this stuff come from? 
And would you be able to, kind of, draw a -- you don't have to draw the diagram, but would you be able to draw the diagram, if you had to do it? Or would you just say, that's actually not possible? 
That's what plants actually do for a living. 
So, these mental models -- we look for evidence that reinforces our models. 
And it's amateur, but amateur in the best sense, in other words, the root of the word being of love and passion. 
And governments do very well. They pat themselves on the back. 
OK? We collude, and actually if you -- if someone had designed a test for me when I was doing my biology exams, to really understand, to see whether I'd understood more than just kind of putting starch and iodine together and seeing it go blue, and really understood that plants took their mass out of the air, then I might have done better at science. 
I love manipulating the infrastructure of biology. 
But within that infrastructure, we have to remember that the driving force of biology is really coming from evolution. 
This is a dead crystal, and I'm going to do something to it, and it's going to become alive. 
But there's a problem, because up until maybe a decade ago, we were told that life was impossible and that we were the most incredible miracle in the universe. 
If we can make matter alive, would we have a matterhazard? 
Chemists are trying to study the molecules to look at disease. 
You can decode the genome, you can look back, you can link us all together by a mitochondrial DNA, but we can't get further than the last ancestor, the last visible cell that we could sequence or think back in history. 
What is life? What is this stuff of life? 
So the whole area's been stuck for a while, and it got reignited in the '80s when analytical technologies and computer technologies were coming on. 
And the answer, of course, lies with mice. 
They're all made of the same stuff, but they want their shape to win. 
And that is the key. 
Let's zoom out to what that could mean. 
If we could get evolution into the material world, then I propose we should have a general theory of evolution. 
And that's really worth thinking about. 
So that means we could then start to develop different platforms for exploring this evolution. 
So you imagine, if we're able to create a self-sustaining artificial life form, not only will this tell us about the origin of life -- that it's possible that the universe doesn't need carbon to be alive; it can use anything -- we can then take [it] one step further and develop new technologies, because we can then use software control for evolution to code in. 
But not only just that, we will start to think about how we can start to develop a symbiotic relationship with biology. 
Evolution cannot be cut apart. 
And we're really becoming very close to understanding the key steps that makes dead stuff come alive. 
We are here today because [the] United Nations have defined goals for the progress of countries. 
Look here -- you have to end poverty, education, gender, child and maternal health, control infections, protect the environment and get the good global links between nations in every aspect from aid to trade. 
That's a four percent reduction per year -- and this, with measuring. 
I'll prove them wrong on both points. 
And I will take Kenya as an example. 
I was actually, on Friday, sitting in front of my computer, and I saw the death rate fall from 128 to 84 just that morning. 
That's unfair. 
Had I been in the Ministry of Health in Kenya, I may have joined these two points. 
So look at the average here -- this is the average for all of sub-Saharan Africa. 
I give you Congo, which was high, Ghana -- lower. And Kenya -- even lower. 
Their countries are so different, and they merit to be recognized in the same way, as we don't talk about Europe as one place. 
There we are today. 
How the heck could they be [a] developing country? 
Look -- even if we look in Africa -- these are the African countries. 
It's very clear that this is what happens. 
That is, when we get girls in school, we'll get an impact 15 to 20 years later, which is a secular trend which is very strong. 
It's a decent life for children, we are talking about. 
Do we care about those four billion people whose income levels are less than two dollars a day, the so-called bottom of the pyramid? 
But if you don't have money, what happens? 
And if they do so, then, of course, the conditions improve, and they start riding on scooters. 
An innovator is one who does not know it cannot be done. 
They combine all that. 
And it was that compassion which bothered them, because when he saw -- in fact, he told me about eight or nine years ago how he was driving his own car -- he drives his own car by the way -- and he saw in the rain, a family like the one that I showed to you getting drenched with an infant. 
For example, how we started: Ratan just began with a five-engineer team, young people in their mid-twenties. 
It was an open innovation, ideas from all over were welcome. 
And the seat riser, for example, serving as a mounting for the seat as well as a structural part of the functional rigidity. 
And British Motor was around 11,000. 
And unbelievably, in 40 years, I was the first Indian to be honored. 
And unique high-ankle design and human-like looks, [unclear] and functions. 
Are you getting more drugs because you are spending more time and more money? 
The ideas have to be such that you think in completely different terms. 
And incubator costs 2,000 dollars. 
But then he held it for a little while, Lakshmi. 
That gave me a great message: focus and you can achieve. 
And currently I'm president of Global Research Alliance, 60,000 scientists in nine counties, right from India to the U.S. 
Commodities are things that you grow in the ground, raise on the ground or pull out of the ground: basically, animal, mineral, vegetable. 
Long-distance telephone service sold on price, price, price; fast-food restaurants with all their value pricing; and even the Internet is commoditizing not just goods, but services as well. 
Now most places that I talk to, when I talk about experience, I talk about Disney -- the world's premier experience-stager. 
And then I always finish off by talking about -- the thing that amazes me the most about this question, particularly coming from the Dutch, is that the Netherlands is every bit as manufactured as Disneyland. 
In fact, you can look at how each of these economies developed, that each one has their own business imperative, matched with a consumer sensibility. 
Because all businesses are man-made objects; all business is involved with money; all business is a matter of using machinery, and all those things make something inauthentic. 
At the end of a laundry list of advice he's giving to his son, Laertes, he says this: And this above all: to thine own self be true. 
As businesses, are the economic offerings you are providing -- are they true to themselves? 
And of course, if you are both true to yourself, and are what you say you are, then you're real real! 
Universal City Walk is a real fake -- in fact, we got this very term from Ada Louise Huxtable's book, The Unreal America. 
But is it really true to itself? 
So she calls it a real fake. 
So, understand what -- your past limits what you can do in the future. 
Right, if you could check into the ads, you'd have a great experience. 
Then you have that perception that you are phony. 
A few words about how I got started, and it has a lot to do with happiness, actually. 
I would make things for people as a way of, you know, giving, showing them my love. 
So, it has to end with this --  -- gratuitous violence. 
So that was how I first started to explore the way things moved, and expressed it. 
I was also very interested in perhaps going into surgery and becoming a surgeon, because it meant working with my hands in a very focused, intense way. 
When I see objects, I imagine them in motion. 
That's about that big. 
This kind of work is also very much like puppetry, where the found object is, in a sense, the puppet, and I'm the puppeteer at first, because I'm playing with an object. 
And they would coalesce for just a moment, so you could perceive that there was a chair there. 
What would I love? 
So this is a little wire-bending tool. 
After many years of bending gears with a pair of pliers, I made that tool, and then I made this other tool for sort of centering gears very quickly -- sort of developing my own little world of technology. 
And the idea, their premise was that we wanted to show pieces of sculpture on the street, and there'd be no subjective decision about what was the best. 
So I'll just let this chair come down. 
And what we were going to do was scan a new project on the development of the fetus from conception to birth using these kinds of new technologies. 
25 Days: Heart chamber developing 32 Days: Arms &amp; hands are developing 36 Days: Beginning of the primitive vertabrae These weeks are the period of the most rapid development of the fetus. 
51 Days 52 Days: Developing retina, nose and fingers The fetus' continual movement in the womb is necessary for muscular and skeletal growth. 
Every six months until they're six years old -- we're going to be doing actually to about 250 children -- watching exactly how the gyri and the sulci of the brains fold to see how this magnificent development actually turns into memories and the marvel that is us. 
I'm a spectroscopist. 
Sometimes we have to deal with just one tiny, weak spectral line to measure the composition of that chemical element in the atmosphere. 
For instance, you see the spectral line of the gold is the only spectral line in the spectrum of the Sun. 
It's a heavy element produced in thermonuclear explosions of supernovae. 
It's the only place where you can produce, actually, osmium. 
It was incredible. The only conclusion we could make from this is clear evidence that there was a supernova explosion in this system, which polluted the atmosphere of this star. 
They actually said that one of the stars you see in the spectra is an alien. It comes from a different galaxy. 
And sometimes they just capture stars. 
We were very surprised to discover a super flare, a flare which is thousands of millions of times more powerful than those we see in the Sun. 
This can be done with the future spectrographs. 
Coming back to the most important question, Is there anybody out there? 
Connection between life and radioactive nuclei is straightforward. 
It's exactly the same game. A very tiny feature. 
It's amazing that we can detect vegetation from a spectrum. 
Now very recently, very recently, I'm talking about last six, seven, eight months, water, methane, carbon dioxide have been detected in the spectrum of a planet outside the solar system. 
And with the known physics etc, it's something actually which has been pointed out by Frank Drake, many years ago, and Shklovsky. 
They want to actually signal their presence through these spectral lines, in the spectrum of a star, in different ways. 
And we are doing this job since 2000 and it's a very heavy project. 
We have been working very hard. 
I think it will come from a spectrum like this. 
It will take about five years. 
And she said, But the thing I liked about your talk is you're a storyteller. 
And she said, I'm going to call you a storyteller. 
I'm a qualitative researcher. 
And maybe I'm just a storyteller. 
The other thing that they had in common was this: They fully embraced vulnerability. 
They're willing to invest in a relationship that may or may not work out. 
Do you have any recommendations? 
And I said, I'm great. I'm okay. 
I just need some strategies. 
And then I said, It's bad, right? 
The problem is -- and I learned this from the research -- that you cannot selectively numb emotion. 
You can't numb those hard feelings without numbing the other affects, our emotions. 
Religion has gone from a belief in faith and mystery to certainty. 
There's no conversation. 
Which just, I hope in 100 years, people will look back and go, Wow. 
And when you hold those perfect little babies in your hand, our job is not to say, Look at her, she's perfect. 
My job is just to keep her perfect -- make sure she makes the tennis team by fifth grade and Yale by seventh grade. 
We do that in our personal lives. 
It is, as you can see, very small and also very cheap. 
So that when we think about using them to get some systematic improvement, we also think about how they can be useful for self-improvement, for self-discovery, self-awareness, self-knowledge. 
Some people will say it's for public health research. 
Thank you. 
I want to talk about it in the context of a story. 
All of our statuses are different. 
All of our hopes and dreams, what we want to accomplish, is different, and our paths will be different, they are all stories. 
and go from this concept of walking, breathing, and then his hands, speak, and ultimately happiness and function. 
And we took this, and we converted it into data. 
But it's not a data point at that one moment in time. 
So, here's Steven alone, sharing this story in the world. 
We need to give to others to be successful. 
And I'm going to show you what Patients Like Me, the company that myself, my youngest brother and a good friend from MIT started. 
But you can aggregate this and you can discover things about treatments. 
So, you can see the duration. 
I'm going to log in. 
And this is a new version of our platform we're launching right now. 
I'm taking three drugs to manage it. Some of them are experimental. 
So, can I take this data -- rearrange yourself, put the symptoms in the left, the drugs across the top, tell me everything we know about Steven and everyone else, and what interacts. 
Doctors actually love this sheet, and they're actually really engaged. 
Ten percent of the people in our system took lithium. 
It's never going to work. You can't do it. 
And then we say, Well how do we line them all up? 
And it works almost every time. 
And yeah, all the clinicians in the audience will talk about power and all the standard deviation. We'll do that later. 
We hired them, set them up, assisting at lab. 
Because something went different. 
And I am thankful. 
We know what they are. 
The B15 iceberg broke off the Ross Ice Shelf. 
And what if we could get exquisite control over the essence of energy, the electron? 
A tremendous amount of energy is coming at us from the sun. 
Wouldn't it be really great if the window could flick back the heat into the room if we needed it or flick it away before it came in? 
We'd have to see at night, right? 
But because it's flexible, it can be on any surface whatsoever. 
It was in actually a diner outside of Dallas/Fort Worth Airport. 
EBox is testing new nanomaterials to park an electron on the outside, hold it until you need it, and then be able to release it and pass it off. 
19 trillion dollars is what we're going to have to spend. 
I'm glad to be working with incredibly brilliant and kind scientists, no kinder than many of the people in the world, but they have a magic look at the world. 
By any standard this is wrong. 
I was two years older than my sister at the time -- I mean, I'm two years older than her now -- but at the time it meant she had to do everything that I wanted to do, and I wanted to play war. 
And on the other side were all my sister's My Little Ponies ready for a cavalry charge. 
I was nervous because my parents had charged me with making sure that my sister and I played as safely and as quietly as possible. 
... with one broken leg. 
I can delete that dot because that's clearly a measurement error. 
So one of the very first things we teach people in economics and statistics and business and psychology courses is how, in a statistically valid way, do we eliminate the weirdos. 
When I applied to Harvard, I applied on a dare. 
I didn't expect to get in, and my family had no money for college. 
Which I'm glad you liked, but they did not like that at all. 
Here's how we get to health: We need to reverse the formula for happiness and success. 
Doctors are 19 percent faster, more accurate at coming up with the correct diagnosis when positive instead of negative, neutral or stressed. 
What we need to be able to do is to reverse this formula so we can start to see what our brains are actually capable of. 
Exercise teaches your brain that your behavior matters. 
And by the way, all of these numbers are significantly higher if you happen to be black, if you happen to be poor, if you happen to exist in an overcrowded school. 
And so we're starting to see the establishment of men centers and men studies to think about how do we engage men in their experiences in the university. 
The next reason that boys' cultures are out of sync with school cultures: there are fewer male teachers. 
But male role models for boys that say it's all right to be smart -- they've got dads, they've got pastors, they've got Cub Scout leaders, but ultimately, six hours a day, five days a week they're spending in a classroom, and most of those classrooms are not places where men exist. 
This is a place for girls. 
We have a serious compression of the curriculum happening out there. 
And if you ask Title 1 teachers, they'll tell you they've got about four or five boys for every girl that's in their program, in the elementary grades. 
All of those conversations need to be happening. 
Who has a computer? Yeah. 
O.K., so, everyone has a computer. 
I went to MIT, did my math, but I had this wonderful opportunity, because computers had just become visual. 
Remember that moment -- publishing your designs? 
I didn't quite get it. And Paul Rand was a kind of crusty designer, you know, a crusty designer, like a good -- kind of like a good French bread? 
This is the first sort of play thing I did, my own serious play. 
This is actually bad: human experiments. 
See, humans don't know how to take orders; the computer's so good at it. 
This guy figured out how to get the computer to draw with two pens at once: you know, you, pen, do this, and you, pen, do this. 
And after this I wanted to build a computer out of people, called a human-powered computer. 
I have behind this wall a disk drive, a CPU, a graphics card, a memory system. 
On the computer, when you move your mouse, that arrow moves around. 
I have no staff; it's all kind of made by hand -- these sort of broken hands. 
So, Naomi was pivotal in that. 
So, if you can see here, you know, that program you're seeing in the corner, if you spread it out, it's all these things all at once. 
You get it? No? O.K. 
They're littler computers, so the one-chip computers, I began to program one-chip computers and make objects out of P.C. boards, LEDs. 
I did a show in London last year made out of iPods -- I used iPods as a material. 
We have this gene defect in our mind. 
This is from the Cape last year. 
This is also out there, you know. 
And I went after it with passion. 
I was, like, aha, wait a second. 
So, thank you everyone. 
What is it about flying cars? 
But we haven't yet gotten to the point where on your way here this morning you see something that really, truly seamlessly integrates the two-dimensional world that we're comfortable in with the three-dimensional sky above us -- that, I don't know about you, but I really enjoy spending time in. 
For those of us that spend most of our lives on the ground, this may be counter-intuitive, but driving has potholes, cobblestones, pedestrians, other drivers and a rather long and detailed list of federal motor vehicle safety standards to contend with. 
You just push a few buttons in the cockpit, and the wings come out. 
Radio 2: That was gorgeous. 
The Transition will cost in line with other small airplanes. 
And I'm certainly not out to replace your Chevy, but I do think that the Transition should be your next airplane. 
And mobility to your destination is clearly solved. 
The question was given to a bunch of engineers, about 15 years ago, How do we make the journey to Paris better? 
What you should in fact do is employ all of the world's top male and female supermodels, pay them to walk the length of the train, handing out free Chateau Petrus for the entire duration of the journey. 
They seem fantastic to me. They cost very little to develop. 
Someone was actually suggesting that you can take this concept further, and actually produce placebo education. 
Before long, there was a massive underground potato-growing operation in Germany. 
Now, boring people would have just simply banned the veil. 
All value is perceived value. 
These funny signs that flash your speed at you, some of the new ones, on the bottom right, now actually show a smiley face or a frowny face, to act as an emotional trigger. 
The wealthy Prussians, to help in the war against the French, were encouraged to give in all their jewelry. 
The interesting thing is that for 50 years hence, the highest status jewelry you could wear in Prussia wasn't made of gold or diamonds. 
It was made of cast iron. 
Because actually, never mind the actual intrinsic value of having gold jewelry. This actually had symbolic value, badge value. 
If you think about it, Shakerism was a proto-environmental movement. 
And that what we add on top is kind of false. It's a fake version. 
However, what we do have now is a much more variegated media ecosystem in which to kind of create this kind of value, and it's much fairer. 
Yet we've never created the opportunity for impulse saving. 
I would say it's a work of genius. 
So I just want to get your first impressions when you see that, when you see the Diamond Shreddies box there. 
But it's kind of like flipping a six or a nine. Like a six, if you flip it over it looks like a nine. 
Thank you very much indeed. 
We're seeing the consequences all around us. 
I would say not just biological design, but all of the design that we think of as human design. 
And 100 pages later. 
And another 100 pages later. 
Or design out of chaos, without the aid of mind. 
Chaos? No. What? Mind? No. 
But that it will get copied if it can, regardless of the consequences. 
This is design process going on. 
A meme is not equivalent to an idea. 
Audience: Sink, toilet! 
This has spread all over the world. 
So, this is a view of what humans are. 
And indeed, in the short time I've already been at TED, I see we're even closer than I thought we were before. 
We'll think we're choosing these things, but the temes are making us do it. 
It's been very productive, that equation. 
Getting a new replicator is dangerous. 
We may take the Gaian view. 
You know all about big brains. 
And why would they do that? 
So, those are the two possibilities. 
I have no idea. 
I was afraid of a tsunami; what I didn't realize was there was a greater terror in Haiti, and that was building collapse. 
After all, it was the buildings, not the earthquake, that killed 220,000 people, that injured 330,000, that displaced 1.3 million people, that cut off food and water and supplies for an entire nation. 
Behind that door is the National Judicial Archives. 
Now there's a solution to all these problems. 
And because I had 70 percent of my body burned, it would take about an hour. 
So originally I didn't have much money, so I went to a hardware store and I bought a carpenter's vice. 
Now, Ten Commandments is something that is hard to bring into the education system, so we said, Why don't we get people to sign the honor code? 
And this is particularly interesting, because MIT doesn't have an honor code. 
No bill ever disappeared. 
We did not pay them with dollars; we paid them with something else. 
But this did not solve the big problem I had with Enron yet, because in Enron, there's also a social element. 
So everybody got an envelope with all the money for the experiment, and we told them that at the end, we asked them to pay us back the money they didn't make. OK? 
What would happen to the other people in the group? 
Will they cheat more, or will they cheat less? 
All of the subjects sitting in the experiment were Carnegie Mellon students. 
When we remind people about their morality, they cheat less. 
But unless we start testing those intuitions, we're not going to do better. 
Okay. 
Well, cilidh first of all is Gaelic for party, but kitchen party in Cape Breton is very common, and basically somebody drops into the house, and no matter what house you go to in Cape Breton, there's a fiddle there, guaranteed, and I'd say, well there's first of all more fiddlers per capita in Cape Breton than anywhere in the world, so ten chances to one, the fellow who walked in the door could play it, so you'd have someone come into the house, you'd invite them to play a tune, and lo and behold a little party would start up and somebody would dance, and somebody would sing, and all that sort of thing, so it was a wonderful, wonderful way to grow up, and that is where my beginnings in music come from: my surroundings, my family, just my bloodline in itself, and, oh, I've done lots of things with my music. 
Donnell Leahy: Thank you. I'm kind of new to the TED experience and I'm glad to be here, but I'm just trying to put it all together, trying to figure all you people out, and I've been here for a short while, and I'm starting to understand a little bit better. 
We learned to play the instruments, but we kind of had to come from within or go from within, because we didn't watch television, we didn't listen to a lot of radio. We went to church and to school sometimes, and farmed and played music, so we were able, I think, at a very critical age to develop our own style, our own self, and my mother plays, my father plays, and the style that came from the Ottawa Valley in Ontario, we call it French-Canadian style but it originated in logging camps. 
Airs were played in Europe at burials, as a body was carried out from the wake site to the burial site, the procession was led by a piper or a fiddle player. 
We're laughing, like, because our styles are totally different, as you can hear. 
Announcer: Great news, they're running late downstairs. 
When she got up to make tea, she placed him in my own lap and I had never felt a child that was that emaciated. 
Single mother, HIV positive. 
I photographed her before and after the birth of her beautiful baby girl, Issa. 
Joyce's mother is now taking care of her daughter, like so many other Zimbabwean children who've been orphaned by the epidemic. 
And I was constantly reading the New York Times, and stunned by the statistics, the numbers. 
So I quit my job and decided that that's the subject that I wanted to tackle. 
We've known about fusion since 1920, when Sir Arthur Stanley Eddington and the British Association for the Advancement of Science conjectured that that's why the sun shines. 
And once it was sort of explained to me how fast we were using up the world's resources, I got very upset, about as upset as I did when I realized that the Earth will only last about five billion years before it's swallowed by the sun. 
Energy, at the moment, is dominated by resource. 
It's a medium-sized nucleus. 
And indeed that's exactly what stars do. 
So, that's that process there. Deuterium and tritium goes together makes helium 5. 
And that energy is what powers fusion. 
And as you go across there you see a few tens of years of oil -- the blue line, by the way, is the lowest estimate of existing resources. 
And as you go across there you will see that we've got a few tens of years, and perhaps 100 years of fossil fuels left. 
So, how would we make it? 
We can do fusion. In the center of this device we made 16 megawatts of fusion power in 1997. 
If you want to know how, ask yourself this question: What would you attempt to do if you knew you could not fail? 
Because when you ask it, you begin to understand how the fear of failure constrains you, how it keeps us from attempting great things, and life gets dull, amazing things stop happening. 
The path to truly new, never-been-done-before things always has failure along the way. 
In October of 1903, the prevailing opinion of expert aerodynamicists was that maybe in 10 million years we could build an aircraft that would fly. 
40 years later, aero experts coined the term transonic. 
Since we took to the sky, we have wanted to fly faster and farther. 
It's boosted to near-space atop a Minotaur IV rocket. 
That's an unnatural act for a rocket. 
The third stage has a camera. 
This is the actual rocketcam footage from flight one. 
Now to conceal the shape, we changed the aspect ratio a little bit. 
This is a hummingbird drone. 
It does not eat nectar. 
Or perhaps, Spider Man will one day be Gecko Man. 
Each lightning bolt heats the air to 44,000 degrees Fahrenheit -- hotter than the surface of the Sun. 
Using a grid the size of your thumb, with 32 electrodes on the surface of his brain, Tim uses his thoughts to control an advanced prosthetic arm. 
This green goo is perhaps the vaccine that could save your life. 
They are nerds, and they are heroes among us. 
There is only time enough to iron your cape and back to the skies for you. 
Well I don't think we ultimately know what it will be, right. 
It's actually, Look at that cute hummingbird flying into my headquarters. 
Well look, our singular mission is the creation and prevention of strategic surprise. 
That's what we do. 
And you persuade people to go to these great feats of invention, but at a personal level, in a way I can't imagine doing your job. 
But, quite frankly, on this issue, there is no other road. 
Sorry, this was my mother, by the way, in her bead shop in London. 
Because just that soil could make the acoustic difference. 
And the British government saying, You need to be in the top five. 
But you just have to go to a garden center, and they're in little paper packets. 
And so there was one particular toy that gave us a clue. 
And the government agreed to do that and not do anything else, and focus our energy on that. 
This is the only project that we've done where the finished thing looked more like a rendering than our renderings. 
I'm sorry about my stupid voice there. 
So if we could chop that away and give the building a small bottom, we could take that bit and put it at the top where the greater commercial value is for a property developer. 
Thank you. 
June Cohen: So thank you. Thank you, Thomas. You're a delight. 
Well that fundamental sense of oneness is lost on us very quickly. 
The self changed, got affected, broken, destroyed, but another one would evolve -- sometimes stronger, sometimes hateful, sometimes not wanting to be there at all. 
The self was not constant. 
But nature had its wicked way, and brown babies were born. 
It was the first time that I existed inside a fully-functioning self -- one that I controlled, that I steered, that I gave life to. 
Well, I thought I had the answer to that one, and I said, Skin color. 
For a start, we can think about all the times when we do lose ourselves. 
I take it to therapy. 
And in that disconnected state, yeah, we can build factory farms with no windows, destroy marine life and use rape as a weapon of war. 
Thank you for listening. 
You can see my fellow riders at the end of the picture, looking at me with some concern. 
And here is another picture of them. 
They are supposed to be locked up. 
And I became increasingly more and more agitated, because I was there not only to be with them, but also to ride and create a team and I didn't know what to do. 
We're going downhill in some rocky terrain, and the front tire of Alex gets caught in one of these crevasses here. 
I've had it. 
It took me several such incidents to figure out what I was supposed to do. 
At the beginning, it was a disaster. 
I tried harsh words and threats and they took me nowhere. 
Go away you maniac-psychopath. 
And I would say, Relax, Alex. 
So, for such a kid, when an adult that he learns to respect stays close to him and doesn't walk away from him in any situation, irrespective of how he behaves, it's a tremendous healing experience. 
Now, I come from a cutthroat world of science and high technology. 
I used to think that reason and logic and relentless drive were the only ways to make things happen. 
All you have to do is play with it, change it a little bit, and come up with something that does help, that does work. 
Or you can also look back in time and realize that you've already conquered steeper mountains before. 
And so we talked about these special words that we teach them. 
In every one of these rides I always end up standing in one of these incredible locations, taking in this incredible landscape around me, and I feel blessed and fortunate that I'm alive, and that I sense every fiber in my aching body. 
The blank slate was an influential idea in the 20th century. 
This is a recent study by the neurobiologist Paul Thompson and his colleagues in which they -- using MRI -- measured the distribution of gray matter -- that is, the outer layer of the cortex -- in a large sample of pairs of people. 
And as you can see, large amounts of the brain are not purple, showing that if one person has a thicker bit of cortex in that region, so does his fraternal twin. 
And here's what happens if you get a pair of people who share all their DNA -- namely, clones or identical twins. 
Another political fear of human nature is that if we are blank slates, we can perfect mankind -- the age-old dream of the perfectibility of our species through social engineering. 
And so when Thomas Jefferson wrote in the Declaration of Independence, We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are created equal, he did not mean We hold these truths to be self-evident, that all men are clones. 
That is because the human mind is a complex system with many parts, and some of them can inhibit others. 
For example, there's excellent reason to believe that virtually all humans are born with a moral sense, and that we have cognitive abilities that allow us to profit from the lessons of history. 
Well, the night is young, but the book has been out for half a year, and nothing terrible has happened. 
Visual arts -- decoration of surfaces and bodies -- appears to be a human universal. 
A paraphrase of a quote by Virginia Woolf, and there's some debate as to what she actually meant by that. 
I mean, this is perhaps a representative example of the visual depiction of the female form in the 15th century; here is a representative example of the depiction of the female form in the 20th century. 
Well, this turned out to be probably the most controversial claim in the book. 
And the job in question was sheep rancher. 
This one was actually around the playing cards I got yesterday, but it had a certain familiarity to it. 
Albert is the shepherd in question. 
Albert goes in, I follow Albert, the crew is around. 
I say, Time out. Stop. 
We don't fool around, we don't rehearse -- we shoot what we get! 
And I'm like, I don't know what just happened, but there are testicles in this bucket and that's not how we do it. 
He says, OK. 
Gets up, walks to the corner, it's quivering, and it lies down and it's in obvious distress. 
He's like, A day. 
And I was reminded how utterly wrong I am, so much of the time. 
Melanie picks up the lamb, puts it on the post, opens it up. 
I do. 
And I'm like, What is this jacked-up metaphor? 
Anagnorisis is the Greek word for discovery. 
That's peripety or peripeteia. 
It's crushing when the audience sees it the right way. 
Looking at that poor other little thing that I'd done it the right way on, and I just was struck by if I'm wrong about that and if I'm wrong so often, in a literal way, what other peripatetic misconceptions might I be able to comment upon? 
I mean, these are the people that I work with every single day. 
Because, dude, you know, four years. 
You know, follow your dreams and go broke, right? 
Right? 
They know that other things come first -- the business of doing the work comes first, the business of getting it done. 
Most hazardous environment I'd ever seen, and I was back with a guy, lashing the pots down. 
I scamper down, I go into the wheelhouse and I say, with some level of incredulity, Captain, OSHA. 
It goes like this -- we've declared war on work, as a society, all of us. 
We turn them into heroes, or we turn them into punch lines. 
I just know that that's a front in this war. 
And I realized, probably too late in this game -- I hope not, because I don't know if I can do 200 more of these things -- but we're going to do as many as we can. 
It's been great talking to you and get back to work, will you? 
Democracy, as a type of politics, is a technology for the control and deployment of power. 
I would put it in the following equation: no 9/11, no war. 
Islam represents a way of engaging the world through which one can achieve certain desirable goals. 
You can show the Capitol -- I had the same problem when I was designing the cover of my forthcoming book, in fact -- what do you put on the cover to show democracy? 
You can show a mosque, or you can show worshippers, but there's not a straightforward way of depicting Islam. 
These are contested points, and it's impossible to answer them by saying, Ah ha, I looked in the right place, and I found out what these concepts mean. 
And I think that that's, in fact, probably the first appropriate response. 
And the hopeful response derives from recognizing that Islam and democracy are technologies. 
And they're making this argument wherever they're permitted to make it. 
They were actually blocked from even forming a party under the political system there. Why? 
Now what I want to suggest to you is that the reason for hope in this case is that we are on the edge of a real transformation in the Muslim world. 
When these heartbreaking images of oiled birds finally began to emerge from the Gulf of Mexico last year during the horrific BP oil spill, a German biologist by the name of Silvia Gaus was quoted as saying, We should just euthanize all oiled birds because studies have shown that fewer than one percent of them survive after being released. 
And the local seabird rescue center, named SANCCOB, immediately launched a massive rescue operation -- and this soon would become the largest animal rescue ever undertaken. 
I was a penguin aquarist at the New England Aquarium. 
I was instantly transported back to that moment in time. 
So for the few of us that were there in a professional capacity, this extraordinary volunteer response to this animal crisis was profoundly moving and awe-inspiring. 
Now mind you, three days earlier, we had 60 penguins under our care, so we were definitely overwhelmed and just a bit terrified -- at least I was. 
And you may notice they're wearing very thick gloves. 
He said, Okay, why don't we try and collect the birds at the greatest risk of getting oiled -- they collected 20,000 -- and we'll ship them 500 miles up the coast to Port Elizabeth in these open air trucks and release them into the clean waters there and let them swim back home. 
About a year prior to this oil spill, a 17 year-old student had invented a degreaser. 
Just look at that 17 year-old. 
And the two main threats to penguins today are overfishing and global warming. 
And I was doing some rather controversial religious programs. 
This went down very well in the U.K., where religion is extremely unpopular. 
Indeed, some of the world traditions think very little of religious orthodoxy. 
You behave in a committed way, and then you begin to understand the truths of religion. 
Why? Because in compassion, when we feel with the other, we dethrone ourselves from the center of our world and we put another person there. And once we get rid of ego, then we're ready to see the Divine. 
And in particular, every single one of the major world traditions has highlighted -- has said -- and put at the core of their tradition what's become known as the Golden Rule. 
Hillel stood on one leg and said, That which is hateful to you, do not do to your neighbor. That is the Torah. The rest is commentary. 
So the traditions also insisted -- and this is an important point, I think -- that you could not and must not confine your compassion to your own group: your own nation, your own co-religionists, your own fellow countrymen. You must have what one of the Chinese sages called jian ai: concern for everybody. Love your enemies. Honor the stranger. 
And this, again -- this universal outreach -- is getting subdued in the strident use of religion -- abuse of religion -- for nefarious gains. 
Now, I've lost count of the number of taxi drivers who, when I say to them what I do for a living, inform me that religion has been the cause of all the major world wars in history. Wrong. 
Because it seems to me that with -- our current situation is so serious at the moment that any ideology that doesn't promote a sense of global understanding and global appreciation of each other is failing the test of the time. 
I was part of that United Nations initiative called the Alliance of Civilizations, which was asked by Kofi Annan to diagnose the causes of extremism, and to give practical guidelines to member states about how to avoid the escalation of further extremism. 
It was just one of those pot-luck things where you get it right first time. 
Moving on to something a bit larger, this is an X-ray of a bus. 
It's not just Topshop, I get some strange looks when I go out getting my props. 
And to carry on with a theme that we've already touched with is how nature is related to architecture. 
In fact, that is three months solid X-raying. 
And when they do, I'm in the queue. 
So, I like to use them. 
That flower doesn't come in bright orange, I don't think. 
I'm now going to show you a short film, I'll step to the side. 
The bus was done with a cargo-scanning X-ray machine, which is used on the borders between countries, looking for contraband and illegal immigrants. 
I will show how the capillary action works, how it feeds, I'll be able to get all the cells inside that stem. 
Sometimes you keep the time up, because the time gives you detail. 
The longer the exposure goes on for, the more detail you get. 
I've got the opportunity now to show you what I'm going to be doing in the future. 
Like, my first computer was a big movement in my life. 
Meet Tony. He's my student. 
If I ever get out of here, there will always be a mark by my name. 
I'm a convict; I am branded 'wrong.' What are you going to tell me about right and wrong? 
Then can you tell me what wrong is? 
Socrates died in prison, his philosophy intact. 
His body is in prison, but his mind is free. 
Yes, they gave 12 monkeys a typewriter for a week, and after a week, they only used it as a bathroom. 
You'll been engulfed by a red giant. 
Love does not die because of that thing. 
I'm very lucky, because he's better than all the other children. 
That's the wonderful thing about evolution -- the predilection to believe that our child is best. 
Now in many ways, that's just a survival thing. 
The fact we see here is the vehicle for our genes, and therefore we love it. 
But we don't notice that bit; we just unconditionally love. 
Perhaps you've been at home for a week on your own. 
You house is in a terrible state. 
You think, what should I do? 
For me, it's a very, very important thing. 
I look out the window, and I realize that every single time we stop and I look out that window, framed in that window, wherever we are, I am observing more life than there is in the rest of the known universe beyond the planet Earth. 
That, to me, is an incredible thing. 
I began The Vagina Monologues because I was worried about vaginas. 
What does anyone mean when they talk about real security? 
This is, of course, unless your whole life is about being secure. 
You become whatever it is that will freeze you, numb you and protect you from doubt or change. 
But all this does, actually, is shut down your mind. 
One of the amazing things that I've discovered in my travels is that there is this emerging species. 
I've discovered these people, who, in V-Day world, we call Vagina Warriors. 
They raised 10,000 dollars on a production that never occurred. 
Now this seems like a fairly, you know, frivolous, but what happened as a result of that, is that that school now is forming a sex education class. It's beginning to talk about sex, it's beginning to look at why it would be wrong for a young high school girl to talk about her vagina publicly or to say that she loved her vagina publicly. 
In the years that she walked, she educated parents, mothers, fathers. 
Real security is contemplating death, not pretending it doesn't exist. 
And I think part of what I'm learning in this process is that one must allow oneself to feel grief. 
Now I was stupid, but not so stupid that I turned it down. 
It is the story factory, one of the very best in the world. 
But they all have one thing in common: They all need to look like something. 
They all need a face. 
The first was Katharine Hepburn's memoirs, and the second was a biography of Marlene Dietrich. 
So the Hepburn story is words and the Dietrich story is pictures, and so we did this. 
And what I ended up with was a graphic representation of us seeing this animal coming into being. 
No, that is not me. 
That's a responsibility. 
A book cover is a distillation. 
This story was a real puzzle. 
Huhh! And now the sultan is in danger. 
Don't get me started. 
But something is definitely lost: tradition, a sensual experience, the comfort of thingy-ness -- a little bit of humanity. 
What does it look like? 
Yes. It can, it does and it will, but for this book designer, page-turner, dog-eared place-holder, notes in the margins-taker, ink-sniffer, the story looks like this. 
The students should teach their teachers. 
Well, we heard that one too, but Pioneer Germ Fighters totally rules. 
Instead of just scoffing at this heresy that a kid wanted to get published or saying wait until you're older, my parents were really supportive. 
The school I went to was pretty boring. 
And that was the finishing post right there. 
But our school at that time got a grant from the government, and they got an incredible computer -- the research machine 3DZ -- and they left the programming manuals lying around. 
That's what they thought they had built it for. 
This is one of my favorite ones here, where they have rabbit breeding, so males choose the lucky rabbit. 
So I went on for the next 20 years or so making a lot of different games. 
Now, Chris did ask me to bring some statistics with me, so I've done that. 
But 83 percent of games don't have any mature content whatsoever, so it's just not true. 
It makes about 80 million bucks a month in subscriptions. 
I wanted to update that video and give you a new look at it. 
I played in the backyard, learned to read, and even ate some of my vegetables. 
But as was the case for most of my generation, I spent a lot of time in front of the TV. 
Their importance blends into the sensationalized drama of prime time TV. 
I have fought in wars, feared for my own survival, watched my cohorts die on beaches and woods that look and feel more real than any textbook or any news story. 
As gamers we are now living by the same laws of physics in the same cities and doing many of the same things we once did in real life, only virtually. 
The sensory cues are very similar. 
More beautiful and rich than the real world around us. 
Video games are fun, engaging, and leave your brain completely vulnerable to re-programming. 
There is a potential to do good as well. 
Wow. 
This is just a cool shot, because this is students coming to school after class. 
She's never going to know a world where video games aren't incredibly emotional and will probably make her cry. 
Chris Anderson: David Perry. That was awesome. 
It's this change in perspective on what it is we think we're perceiving that has helped us make more progress in the last 400 years than we have in the rest of human history. 
So one of the things that goes from simple to complex is when we do more. We like more. 
And in fact, what Murray was talking about yesterday in the fractal beauty of nature -- of having the descriptions at various levels be rather similar -- all goes down to the idea that the elementary particles are both sticky and standoffish, and they're in violent motion. 
Not because it wasn't beautiful or anything, but because it misses the thing that most students fail to understand about molecular biology, and that is: why is there any probability at all of two complex shapes finding each other just the right way so they combine together and be catalyzed? 
So they had created these artifacts. 
So that's what Lauren did. 
Each time I click it, car turn. 
Teacher: [Choose] objects that you think will fall to the Earth at the same time. 
Who's got the apple? 
We've done that already. 
Galileo, by the way, did this very cleverly by running a ball backwards down the strings of his lute. 
I'm focusing on biology, the biological sciences. 
And thereby hangs a tale. 
You just have to look at the Human Genome Project. 
We're reading the book of life. 
On the way there it's going to completely revolutionize medicine and health care; that's obvious. 
What we're doing is we are seizing control of our evolutionary future. 
That is going to be the IT challenge of the next generation, is communicating all this information. 
We're sort of circumventing evolutionary programs that guide our behavior. 
It didn't happen. 
And pretty soon it's going to be possible to avoid virtually all genetic diseases in that way. 
Directly going in -- it's a little bit further away, but not that far away -- going in and altering the genes in the first cell in an embryo. 
People can try and ban these things. 
Other people are going to say, This is great. 
And from the beginning of today's sessions you'd think that they're going to see this as this horrible difficult, painful period that we struggled through. 
And I don't think that's what's going to happen. 
They are going to think about it as this glorious instant when we laid down the very foundations of their lives, of their society, of their future. 
I have a daughter, Mulan. 
It's our own pond. And that's how it happens. 
I know. 
She's like, What? And she goes, But Mom, but men and women can't ever see each other naked, Mom. 
Human males and females develop a special bond, and when they're much older, much, much older than you, and they have a very special feeling, then they can be naked together. 
I don't understand the legs. 
Well, the Internet has empowered us. 
And as he came the second day, I thought, Wow, that's really a cartoon lover. 
You will not like it. 
This looks like a giant hamburger. 
I was there to report on that story in cartoons. 
I said, Well, maybe we don't have time for this right now. 
Show the positive power of cartoons. 
And I've been doing projects like this, in 2009 in Lebanon, this year in Kenya, back in January. 
So this was a great project. 
So, I want to start out with this beautiful picture from my childhood. 
If you go back two billion years, you're not on an Earth-like planet any more. 
What we call an Earth-like planet is actually a very short interval of time. 
We are right now in the beautiful Oreo of existence -- of at least life on Planet Earth -- following the first horrible microbial age. 
We have as much time for animals to exist on this planet as they have been here now, till we hit the second microbial age. 
And that's the fate of a planet, too. 
All along it was thought to be either an act of God or perhaps long, slow climate change, and that really changed in 1980, in this rocky outcrop near Gubbio, where Walter Alvarez, trying to figure out what was the time difference between these white rocks, which held creatures of the Cretaceous period, and the pink rocks above, which held Tertiary fossils. 
A 10-kilometer body hit the planet. 
This is a Gorgonopsian, or a Gorgon. 
But there's lots of stuff. 
This is called paleontological child abuse. 
And the what, I think, is that we returned, over and over again, to the Pre-Cambrian world, that first microbial age, and the microbes are still out there. 
And the last three years have seen an enormous breakthrough in a brand-new field. 
We had these hydrogen sulfide oceans for a very great long period. 
This is a tracking experiment, and any of you scuba divers, if you want to get involved in one of the coolest projects ever, this is off the Great Barrier Reef. 
This is a Great White Shark that ate some of my traps. 
We pulled it up; up it comes. So, it's out there with me at night. 
Tried to figure out how to save Americans after battlefield injuries. 
Now, the same mouse is given 80 parts per million hydrogen sulfide in this solid graph, and look what happens to its temperature. 
Do we all have to have a little button saying, Let me die? 
So, what we're looking at now: does it leave a signal? 
It's simultaneously an incredible medical technique, but also a terrifying ... 
This cell phone started its trajectory in an artisanal mine in the Eastern Congo. 
And all of those products probably end their lives in a dump like this one in Manila. 
Some of these governance gaps are run by rogue states. 
But right now, most of the companies involved in these supply chains don't have any way of assuring us that nobody had to mortgage their future, nobody had to sacrifice their rights to bring us our favorite brand name product. 
Now, I didn't come here to depress you about the state of the global supply chain. 
It's a pharmaceutical product. 
You expect that the supply chain that gets it to the hospital, probably squeaky clean. 
So a couple of years ago, we had a scandal which killed about 80 people around the world, because of contaminants that crept into the heparin supply chain. 
And the USFDA has a jurisdictional problem. 
But they are extremely efficient organizations. 
You can call yourself responsible, but responsibility without accountability often doesn't work. 
Just look at pandemics -- swine flu, bird flu, H1N1. 
There are thousands of suppliers in there. 
It seems too daunting, too dangerous, for any company to take on. 
Please ask them to treat us like human beings. 
So I appeal to you. 
Okay, there's a few heartbreaks that chocolate can't fix. 
Your voice is small, but don't ever stop singing. 
But there are plenty of things I have trouble understanding. 
Spoken word poetry is the art of performance poetry. 
And step three began when I realized that I didn't have to write poems that were indignant, if that's not what I was. 
And actually, Phil Kaye and I coincidentally also share the same last name. 
And the first list that I assign is 10 Things I Know to be True. 
At a certain point, you would realize that someone has the exact same thing, or one thing very similar, to something on your list. 
And fourth, someone has something you thought you knew everything about, but they're introducing a new angle of looking at it. 
And I said, Charlotte, it sounds pretty interesting to me. 
Somebody once told me it's like walking through life like this. 
And what was left of the city soon followed. 
The long-lasting damage of nuclear radiation caused an entire city and its population to turn into powder. 
But in Hiroshima, some people were wiped clean away, leaving only a wristwatch or a diary page. 
In the original story, God told Sarah she could do something impossible and she laughed, because the first Sarah, she didn't know what to do with impossible. 
But on the front step, a person who was sitting there blocked the rays from hitting the stone. 
They not only recorded history; they helped change the course of history. 
And as a reaction, it stimulates public opinion and gives impetus to public debate, thereby preventing the interested parties from totally controlling the agenda, much as they would like to. 
That was a tradition I wanted to follow. 
Seeing the war created such incredibly high stakes for everyone involved and that visual journalism could actually become a factor in conflict resolution -- I wanted to be a photographer in order to be a war photographer. 
In 1981, I went to Northern Ireland. 
During the early '80s, I spent a lot of time in Central America, which was engulfed by civil wars that straddled the ideological divide of the Cold War. 
He literally had nothing. He was a virtual skeleton, yet he could still summon the courage and the will to move. 
He had not given up, and if he didn't give up, how could anyone in the outside world ever dream of losing hope? 
An aluminum factory in Czechoslovakia was filled with carcinogenic smoke and dust, and four out of five workers came down with cancer. 
When the story was published, unsolicited donations poured in. 
I tried to tell the story through the work of caregivers. 
I thought it was important to emphasize that people were being helped, whether by international NGOs or by local grassroots organizations. 
The international community still hasn't found a way to create the pressure necessary to stop this genocide. 
I'd been photographing in the Islamic world since 1981 -- not only in the Middle East, but also in Africa, Asia and Europe. 
For the first time in years, Shi'ites were allowed to make the pilgrimage to Karbala to observe Ashura, and I was amazed by the sheer number of people and how fervently they practiced their religion. 
The spirit they displayed was absolutely remarkable. 
Photographers go to the extreme edges of human experience to show people what's going on. 
And therefore I will limit myself to only talk about the links between religion and sexuality. 
So I will talk of what I remember as the most wonderful. 
It's when the young couple whisper, Tonight we are going to make a baby. 
Will the number of children increase each year up to 15 years, or will it continue in the same fast rate and be four billion children up there? 
So bear with our simplicity now when I take you over to this shot. 
And here the income per person in comparable dollars. 
Otherwise it was only Christian countries. 
And by 2010, we are actually 80 percent of humans who live in countries with about two children per woman. 
But 30 years from now, Afghanistan will go from 30 million to 60 million. 
It's an amazing improvement, from seven children per woman, they've gone all the way down to between four and five. 
Well I do as I always do. 
I went to the statistical authority of Qatar, to their webpage -- It's a very good webpage. I recommend it -- and I looked up -- oh yeah, you can have lots of fun here -- and provided free of charge, I found Qatar's social trends. 
Now look again at this. 
So what will happen now is quite straightforward. 
Most of us have to trust that that happens correctly for our own vote, and we all have to trust that that happens correctly for all the votes in the election. 
So this is how you vote. 
So you let a poll station worker scan your encrypted vote. 
And these are elections by the people, for the people. 
I was in India this past year, and I may have seen the last cases of polio in the world. 
And he made an outrageous prediction that smallpox would be eradicated, and that this was God's gift to humanity because of the hard work of dedicated scientists. 
Audience: Early detection, early response. 
And India was the place where smallpox made its last stand. 
You could vaccinate everybody in India, but one year later there'll be 21 million new babies, which was then the population of Canada. 
We had a scorecard that we wrote on every house. 
This may be the year we eradicate polio -- that will make it the second disease in history. 
I hope that you will take a look at it. 
Would you get in an airplane with 250 people you didn't know, coughing and sneezing, when you knew that some of them might carry a disease that could kill you, for which you had no antivirals or vaccine? 
I asked them -- these are all fluologists and specialists in influenza -- and I asked them the questions you'd like to ask them. 
Within three weeks it will be everywhere in the world. 
Let's increase the websites that they crawl from 20,000 to 20 million. 
Then a number of years went by, and there were a lot of rumors about bird flu. 
They reported this to WHO. WHO took a little while taking action because WHO will only receive a report from a government, because it's the United Nations. 
Now, what's really important is that, before there was GPHIN, 100 percent of all the world's reports of bad things -- whether you're talking about famine or you're talking about bird flu or you're talking about Ebola -- 100 percent of all those reports came from nations. 
The moment these guys in Ottawa, on a budget of 800,000 dollars a year, got cracking, 75 percent of all the reports in the world came from GPHIN, 25 percent of all the reports in the world came from all the other 180 nations. 
Now, here's what's real interesting, after they'd been working for a couple years, what do you think happened to those nations? 
I was this weird little kid who wanted to have deep talks about the worlds that might exist beyond the ones that we perceive with our senses. 
Take a breath right now of this clear air in this room. 
They've made me a proud I-don't-know-it-all. 
And we used some guidelines to keep our conversation elevated, and you can use them too, because I know you're all going to take an Other to lunch. 
My lunch partner and I came away with some really important insights, and I'm going to share just one with you. 
And since we had established some trust, we believed in each other's sincerity. 
We agreed we'd speak up in our own communities when we witnessed the kind of otherizing talk that can wound and fester into paranoia and then be used by those on the fringes to incite. 
Instead, we had taken first steps together, past our knee-jerk reactions, to the ubuntu place, which is the only place where solutions to our most intractable-seeming problems will be found. 
Because ubuntu work is slow, and it's difficult. 
It's two people, two warriors, dropping their weapons and reaching toward each other. 
In my life, when I tried to achieve things like success or recognition, they eluded me. 
And it is, for me, a language which expressed the intangible, and gives voice to people and stories without. 
Joshua claims to have personally killed more than 10,000 people during Liberia's civil war. 
But what I saw opened my eyes to an idea of forgiveness which I never thought possible. 
I was intensely moved during all this. 
And yes, all of those people killed were male. 
Many of the women are married with children, and they say the hardest part of their deployment was being kept away from their children. 
And when I asked one of the women about the shock and awe response, she said, Don't worry, same thing back home. 
We know how to deal with these fellows, and ignored them. 
Sometimes, when the war is over and all the film crews have left, the most inspiring stories are the ones that float just beneath the radar. 
They answer more than 5,000 calls in just two months. 
It seems that this story helped change perceptions about the DFS, at least in the minds of an audience in part on televisions, read magazines and whose huts aren't on fire. 
That's right, yeah. Very rarely do we ever know, and if we find out at some stage then we destroy that information as soon as possible. 
Wow, so your leak really substantially changed the world? 
Let me know when you've got them. Let's shoot. 
Hotel ... Bushmaster Two-Six, Bushmaster Two-Six, we need to move, time now! 
Two-Six, this is Two-Six, we're mobile. 
What was the key element of this that actually caused the outrage, do you think? 
I mean, in general, what's your philosophy? 
We have a way of dealing with information that has sort of personal -- personally identifying information in it. 
Yeah, we do get a lot of that. 
But do you see any irony in the fact that, in order for you to shine that light, you have to, yourself, create secrecy around your sources? 
You know, there might be a couple of views of WikiLeaks and of Julian. 
So late last year -- in November last year -- there was a series of well blowouts in Albania, like the well blowout in the Gulf of Mexico, but not quite as big. 
So under that basis, we put it out and said, Look, we're skeptical about this thing. 
I mean, we're an organization that is hard to grow very quickly because of the sort of material we deal with, so we have to restructure in order to have people who will deal with the highest national security stuff, and then lower security cases. 
Can that be right? 
And you were also -- I mean, you were also a hacker at an early age and ran into the authorities early on. 
So this phrase is not, not as nice as it used to be. 
So just tell us, very quickly in the last minute, the story: what happened in Iceland? 
Instead, they publicized your side. 
However, no studies exist yet that show how or why. 
But then one night, my mom was cooking grilled chicken for dinner, and I noticed that the edges of the chicken, which had been marinated in lemon juice, turned white. 
And later in biology class, I learned that it's due to a process called denaturing, which is where the proteins will change shape and lose their ability to chemically function. 
I was the 17-18 year-old age category winner and then the grand prize winner. 
And that was my first science fair project. 
My parents suffered through many more of my science fair projects, including a remote controlled garbage can. 
And that's huge. 
So that was my work, and it was my way of reimagining the future for future research, with figuring out exactly what this protein does, but also for the future of chemotherapy effectiveness -- so maybe all grandfathers with cancer have a little bit more time to spend with their grandchildren. 
But soon after, I developed a novel mathematical model that essentially quantifies the effect of these environmental pollutants on the lung health of asthmatic patients. 
And it surprises me that no model currently exists that quantifies the effect of environmental factors on human lung health, because that relationship seems so important. 
Because I realized that if we could find a way to target remediation, we could also find a way to treat asthmatic patients more effectively. 
These chemical pollutants are currently not a criteria air pollutant, as defined by the U.S. Clean Air Act. 
So any user can come in here and click on lung function report and it'll take them to this report that I created. 
My translation medium is a very simple basket. 
That means that it is the numbers that control the form, not me. 
I use these scores to collaborate with musicians. 
This piece here is read very differently depending on where you place it. 
You place it in a science museum, it becomes a three-dimensional visualization of data. 
So after being interrogated by this Japanese manager for a half an hour, he finally said, So, Miss Yang, do you have any questions to ask me? 
And sometimes I have young people approaching me say, Lan, you changed my life, and I feel proud of that. 
So it means young couples will have to support four parents who have a life expectancy of 73 years old. 
So making a living is not that easy for young people. 
And for those who are ready to get married and buy their apartment, they figured out they have to work for 30 to 40 years to afford their first apartment. 
For those who do return back to the countryside, they find themselves very welcome locally, because with the knowledge, skills and networks they have learned in the cities, with the assistance of the Internet, they're able to create more jobs, upgrade local agriculture and create new business in the less developed market. 
And after hours of negotiation, 500 dogs were rescued. 
And here also people are helping to find missing children. 
I guess these are the questions people are going to answer. 
And our younger generation are going to transform this country while at the same time being transformed themselves. 
They only learn to be frightened of those differences when an adult influences them to behave that way, and maybe censors that natural curiosity, or you know, reins in the question-asking in the hopes of them being polite little kids. 
The doors open, the kids descend on this table of legs, and they are poking and prodding, and they're wiggling toes, and they're trying to put their full weight on the sprinting leg to see what happens with that. 
And immediately a voice shouted, Kangaroo! 
And then, one eight-year-old said, Hey, why wouldn't you want to fly too? 
So this magazine, through the hands of graphic designer Peter Saville, went to fashion designer Alexander McQueen, and photographer Nick Knight, who were also interested in exploring that conversation. 
Today, I have over a dozen pair of prosthetic legs that various people have made for me, and with them I have different negotiations of the terrain under my feet, and I can change my height -- I have a variable of five different heights. 
Today, I'm 6'1. 
It's a conversation about augmentation. 
As Lord Blackstone described it, land is protected by trespass law, for most of the history of trespass law, by presuming it protects the land all the way down below and to an indefinite extent upward. 
And BMI was much more democratic in the art that it would include within its repertoire, including African American music for the first time in the repertoire. 
In my view, the most significant thing to recognize about what this Internet is doing is its opportunity to revive the read-write culture that Sousa romanticized. 
White Europeans were subject to the plague. 
We can date it to 700 years ago. 
And if you're thinking of efficient information storage mechanisms, it may not turn out to be chips. 
We're just beginning this journey of life in the new zoo. 
And you can do strange things with this stuff. This is a baby gar. 
Now, the last of these things died in September 1936. 
And if we do that, and insert this into a fertilized wolf's egg, we may give birth to an animal that hasn't walked the earth since 1936. 
The really neat thing about this stuff is that's life. 
And in the measure that we learn how chickens grow wings, and what the program is for those cells to differentiate, one of the things we're going to be able to do is to stop undifferentiated cells, which you know as cancer, and one of the things we're going to learn how to do is how to reprogram cells like stem cells in such a way that they express bone, stomach, skin, pancreas. 
That's why sometimes a person's genes don't have to change a lot to get cancer. 
Same thing with Receptin if you've got breast cancer. 
And you can watch states rise and fall depending on their ability to speak a language of life, and you can watch New York fall off a cliff, and you can watch New Jersey fall off a cliff, and you can watch the rise of the new empires of intelligence. 
That's why nations rise and fall. 
In the 1990s, these are sovereign states that did not exist before 1990. 
And when Noah had done built his Ark, I understand that somebody began to rend a song. 
And the old lady said, Oh yes, come on in. 
It was great. 
It's really amazing. 
If you want to know about Africa, read our literature -- and not just Things Fall Apart, because that would be like saying, I've read 'Gone with the Wind' and so I know everything about America. 
We've had a lot of -- a parade of amazing ideas here. 
But Harry's wife is confused, because she said, You know, Harry had been packing his own lunch for 20 years. 
So I had a very inventive teacher, a Pakistani Muslim, who wanted to teach us about this. 
I mean, picture this -- really picture this. 
We are squandering the most valuable resource we have on this continent: the valuable resource of the imagination. 
And we want to say to Idris, Chop him up. 
Shut him up. 
The question is, how do I balance narratives that are wonderful with narratives of wounds and self-loathing? 
As a young middle-class Nigerian activist, I launched myself along with a whole generation of us into the campaign to stop the government. 
I justified it, and I said, This is the cost of revolution. 
Have I not myself been imprisoned? 
And so they said, Tell me about Africa, Professor Abani. 
There are no essential Africans, and most of us are as completely ignorant as everyone else about the continent we come from, and yet we want to make profound statements about it. 
Gazelle, I killed you for your skin's exquisite touch, for how easy it is to be nailed to a board weathered raw as white butcher paper. 
Rise and walk away like a panther. 
Also the person sitting in your very seats is a liar. 
I watch that TV show 'Lie To Me.' I know you're lying. 
They use it to get to the truth, and they do what mature leaders do everyday; they have difficult conversations with difficult people, sometimes during very difficult times. 
Its power emerges when someone else agrees to believe the lie. 
Deception is actually serious business. 
It's woven into the fabric of our daily and our business lives. 
Koko was taught to communicate via sign language. 
And I need to go back to work for the American people. 
Now if Bill Clinton had said, Well, to tell you the truth ...  or Richard Nixon's favorite, In all candor ...  he would have been a dead giveaway for any liespotter than knows that qualifying language, as it's called, qualifying language like that, further discredits the subject. 
Freud had it right. 
With body language, here's what you've got to do. 
Now we're going to look at the hot spots. 
We say yes, we shake our heads no. 
And we're going to see that in several videos moving forward, but we're going to start -- for those of you who don't know him, this is presidential candidate John Edwards who shocked America by fathering a child out of wedlock. 
But I'm happy to participate in one. 
It's the only asymmetrical expression. 
And these were surfaced by researcher David Matsumoto in California. 
And you'll see when you see the video, she can't even pretend to be an agonizing mother. 
Diane Downs: At night when I close my eyes, I can see Christie reaching her hand out to me while I'm driving, and the blood just kept coming out of her mouth. 
Now I'm going to show you a video of an actual grieving mother, Erin Runnion, confronting her daughter's murderer and torturer in court. 
Now the technology around what the truth looks like is progressing on, the science of it. 
I do now, after learning about all the quantum stuff. 
They fight, they get back up, you know? Wouldn't this be cool? 
This is a clay maker. 
You know, how -- why would a kid want a dinosaur? 
You can see how old this stuff is. 
And I'm really not very good at it. 
This is a -- you can see the little window there. 
So, this is a quick tale I'm going to tell. This is the Furby tale. 
So this is my family. 
I try to do a lot of philosophy, a lot of thinking about all of these projects. 
You can see the little BB in the box is my tilt sensor. 
I just basically gnawed all this stuff out of plastic. 
He didn't test so well, but I like him. 
And then she started doing these other images. 
I have three girls and they just, they -- it's like a rescue animal thing they're going there. 
And on the weekend we ran the parts for that. 
So this is how they come out close to the end. 
For a while, they were making two million Furbys a month. 
And she still actually has those. 
And we're going to try to really pull this off, intentfully try to make something that seems like it's alive. 
And you could actually find full fossil evidence of these. 
Very, very obsessive. 
And then more sculpting, and then more sculpting, and then more sculpting, and then more sculpting. 
John, do you want to bring him up? 
Yeah, they're like kids, you know. 
That's what the investors think, that it's just --  -- right, right. So they're really sweet little guys. 
Now these are not robots, they're kind of lovebots, you know. 
We -- actually, it's very hard to keep people from doing this. 
And there's a lot of social responsibility in that. 
If they can do that, why can't governments and NGOs do the same thing? 
So that's why I took a bit of time to study Coke. 
They have this very continuous feedback loop. 
They said, You roll the ball, you hear some pins go down. 
It's dark, you can't see which one goes down until the lights come on, and then you an see your impact. 
Real-time data turns on the lights. 
They set them up as what they called micro-distribution centers, and those local entrepreneurs then hire sales people, who go out with bicycles and pushcarts and wheelbarrows to sell the product. 
The government noticed in Ethiopia that many of the people were so far away from a health clinic, they were over a day's travel away from a health clinic. 
The third component of Coke's success is marketing. 
Let's listen to this song that Coke created for it, Wavin' Flag by a Somali hip hop artist. 
And it went number one on the pop chart in 17 countries. 
I've even seen it used for a chicken coop. 
We know that circumcision reduces HIV infection by 60 percent in men. 
But it turns out the men do, because they're hearing from their girlfriends that they prefer it, and the men also believe it improves their sex life. 
So what's the endgame? 
So if Coke's marketers came to me and asked me to define happiness, I'd say my vision of happiness is a mother holding healthy baby in her arms. 
To me, that is deep happiness. 
Thank you. 
This is my baseline: This is the Mediterranean coast with no fish, bare rock and lots of sea urchins that like to eat the algae. 
This is their baseline. This is what they think is natural because we started modern science with scuba diving long after we started degrading marine ecosystems. 
What have we learned from these places? 
When we went to pristine reefs, we realized that the natural world was upside down; this pyramid was inverted. 
The top head does account for most of the biomass, in some places up to 85 percent, like Kingman Reef, which is now protected. 
Then you go to Palmyra Atoll that has more biomass of herbivores, and the dead corals are clean, and the corals are coming back. 
And this is what I saw, lots of fish. 
And this particular place, the Medes Islands Marine Reserve, is only 94 hectares, and it brings 6 million euros to the local economy, 20 times more than fishing, and it represents 88 percent of all the tourist revenue. 
These places, when we protect them, if we compare them to unprotected areas nearby, this is what happens. 
The abundance, how many fish you have per square meter, increases almost 170 percent. 
If you fish less, you're actually catching more. 
Another example: Nassau groupers in Belize in the Mesoamerican Reef. 
When I went there for the first time in 2000, there were only 3,000 groupers left. 
It happened in many places around the Caribbean. 
So how much of this do we have? 
People are losing their jobs because the fisheries are collapsing. 
The problem is that we can create these large reserves only in places where there are no people, where there is no social conflict, where the political cost is really low and the economic cost is also low. 
But what about the rest of the coast of the world, where people live and make a living out of fishing? 
How could 85 percent survive on 15 percent? 
The animals at the lower parts of the food chain, they reproduce very fast; they grow really fast; they produce millions of eggs. 
So, really, our picture of a food pyramid is just -- we have to change that completely. 
We think this is universal. 
So the numbers you presented really are astonishing. 
Talk to me about the feeling that you must have experienced of going to these pristine areas and seeing things coming back. 
And if it were not for these places that show hope, I don't think I could continue doing this job. 
And the problem, I think, is that we take the ocean for granted. 
Most of the animals are in the oceans. 
We use the submarine Alvin and we use cameras, and the cameras are something that Bill Lange has developed with the help of Sony. 
Marcel Proust said, The true voyage of discovery is not so much in seeking new landscapes as in having new eyes. 
It's got tentacles dangling, swirling around like that. 
And these are the types of animals that live in that three-dimensional space, that micro-gravity environment that we really haven't explored. 
They're very little understood. 
They go from a couple of inches to a couple of feet. 
It's footage that we've collected for scientific purposes. 
And we're over the Atlantic -- that's the ridge right there -- but we're going to go across the Caribbean, Central America, and end up against the Pacific, nine degrees north. 
Here's where Bill's cameras really do shine. 
And what you're seeing here is a cloud of densely packed, hydrogen-sulfide-rich water coming out of a volcanic axis on the sea floor. 
Not only is it coming out of the Earth -- so, biogenesis made from volcanic activity -- but that bacteria supports these colonies of life. 
A mile and a half from the surface to two miles to three miles -- no sun has ever gotten down here. 
Oh! Good going. 
This is a female of this kind of worm. 
You watch. It doesn't take long before two guys here -- this one and one that will show up over here -- start to fight. 
The red dot is the laser light of the submarine Alvin to give us an idea about how far away we are from the vents. 
It's actually a light-sensing organ. 
This one's several stories tall. 
This stuff is toxic as hell, by the way. 
That's probably where we evolved from. 
There's a fish sitting here. 
Here's a crab with his claw right at the end of that tube worm, waiting for that worm to stick his head out. 
The worms are growing inches per week! 
Despite that, these animals grow back in about a year's time. 
Learn to manage it. 
So, I'd like to talk about why that is, why that's such a calamity for society, what we can do about it and, to close with, why this is an amazing time to be a math teacher. 
This is really destructive. 
David Milch, creator of Deadwood and other amazing TV shows, has a really good description for this. 
You expect sitcom-sized problems that wrap up in 22 minutes, three commercial breaks and a laugh track. 
In all seriousness. Here's an example from a physics textbook. 
I'm sure we all agree that no problem worth solving is like that. 
So I can diagnose the problem a little more specifically in math. 
The math serves the conversation, the conversation doesn't serve the math. 
I like this question. It's about a water tank. 
I've got kids who are mathematically and conversationally intimidated joining the conversation. 
We need more patient problem solvers. Thank you.  
Because actually radical innovation does sometimes come from the very best, but it often comes from places where you have huge need -- unmet, latent demand -- and not enough resources for traditional solutions to work -- traditional, high-cost solutions, which depend on professionals, which is what schools and hospitals are. 
We'll grow by six cities of 12 million people a year for the next 30 years. 
This is where you'll find the fastest growing young populations of the world. 
Or you can go to places like this. 
This is Kibera, which is the largest slum in East Africa. 
Millions of people living here, stretched over many kilometers. 
They're private schools. There are no state schools in slums. 
It's not to do with electricity or water. 
If you want to design from scratch virtually any service in Africa, you would start now with the mobile phone. 
This is a place called the Madangiri Settlement Colony, which is a very developed slum about 25 minutes outside New Delhi, where I met these characters who showed me around for the day. 
Ten years ago, they certainly would have been married. 
This is the best you can get in Hyderabad in Indian education. 
But they find it completely obvious to use computers, websites, make videos, so on and so forth. 
One is to deliver extrinsic motivation, that education has a payoff. 
That's too long if you're poor. 
So you need education to be relevant and help people to make a living there and then, often. 
Our education systems, you do all that stuff afterward, if you're lucky, sport, drama, music. 
So El Sistema in Venezuela uses a violin as a technology of learning. 
Taio Rocha uses making soap as a technology of learning. 
And I learned it from this guy, who is an amazing character. 
And it also supports working-class kids going into Indian schools. 
And it's the same wherever you go. 
It's reliable and people know exactly where they are. 
Why can't we do it more like the Chinese restaurants? 
There are Big Picture schools in the U.S. and Australia. 
But because so many of the issues in education aren't just in school, they're in family and community, what you also need, definitely, is more on the right hand side. 
You need efforts to supplement schools. 
That's an entire second adult lifetime that's been added to our lifespan. 
But many people today -- philosophers, artists, doctors, scientists -- are taking a new look at what I call the third act, the last three decades of life. 
They realize that this is actually a developmental stage of life with its own significance -- as different from midlife as adolescence is from childhood. 
I've spent the last year researching and writing about this subject. 
Obviously, there's no guarantee that it can be a time of fruition and growth. 
It was about a man named Neil Selinger -- 57 years old, a retired lawyer -- who had joined the writers group at Sarah Lawrence where he found his writer's voice. 
It's a terrible disease. It's fatal. 
If however, we can go back and alter our relationship, re-vision our relationship to past people and events, neural pathways can change. 
I mean, as girls, we start off feisty -- Yeah, who says? 
We have agency. 
But very often, many, if not most of us, when we hit puberty, we start worrying about fitting in and being popular. 
Thank you very much. 
But most species actually use insects to do their bidding, and that's more intelligent in a way, because the pollen, they don't need so much of it. 
The insects and other species can take the pollen, transfer it directly to where it's required. 
There are markings on many plants that look like other insects. 
These are the anthers of a lily, cleverly done so that when the unsuspecting insect lands on it, the anther flips up and whops it on the back with a great load of pollen that it then goes to another plant with. 
And basically what the insect has to do -- we're in the middle of the flower -- it has to stick its little proboscis right into the middle of that and all the way down that nectar tube to get to the nectar. 
So not only has the fly not got the nectar from the mimic plant, it's also -- if you look very closely just at the head end, you can see that it's got a bit of pollen that it would be transmitting to another plant, if only some botanist hadn't come along and stuck it to a blue piece of card. 
And when the insect gets there and lands on it, dousing itself in pollen, of course, that it's going to take to another plant, if you look at the every-home-should-have-one scanning electron microscope picture, you can see that there are actually some patterning there, which is three-dimensional. 
Sometimes the whole plant mimics an insect, even to us. 
So flies love this. 
They lay their eggs in it, thinking it's a nice bit of carrion, and not realizing that there's no food for the eggs, that the eggs are going to die, but the plant, meanwhile, has benefited, because the bristles release and the flies disappear to pollinate the next flower -- fantastic. 
This thing does something else which is unusual. 
Recently, a wise media theorist Tweeted, The 19th century culture was defined by the novel, the 20th century culture was defined by the cinema, and the culture of the 21st century will be defined by the interface. 
And I believe this is going to prove true. 
And that's us down there in L.A. and Long Beach on the bottom. 
This is Baron Wolfgang von Kempelen's mechanical chess playing machine. 
And I think it's a pretty valid question. 
He draws sheep after sheep. 
So this is a clip from Charlie Chaplin's Modern Times. 
That's all I'm getting paid for this? 
So we resynthesized this song. 
And then you'd do your best to recreate that with your own voice. 
After previewing it and confirming it's what you submitted, you could submit it into the Mechanical Turk with no other context. 
I'm sorry for this. 
And this was seen by a director in L.A. named James Frost who said, Wait a minute. 
And I think one of my favorite parts of this project was not just shooting a video with lasers, but we also open sourced it, and we made it released as a Google Code project, where people could download a bunch of the data and some source code to build their own versions of it. 
So we thought this was the perfect project to build a collaborative memorial and a virtual resurrection for Johnny Cash. 
Collaborator Five: As much as is different from frame to frame, it really is personal. 
But there's a bunch of different styles. 
There is a real problem with snobbery. 
imagine that snobbery is a distinctively U.K. phenomenon fixated on country houses and titles. 
Snobbery is a global phenomenon. 
Now, the opposite of a snob is your mother. 
Think, This is somebody who is incredibly vulnerable and in need of love. 
We're told, from many sources, that anyone can achieve anything. 
We are now in a system where anyone can rise to any position they please. 
They own their success. But they also own their failure. 
But I think it's insane to believe that we will ever make a society that is genuinely meritocratic. It's an impossible dream. 
What we fear is the judgment and ridicule of others. And it exists. 
And then are fit for ridicule. 
Now is there any alternative to this? 
And that's why we enjoy looking at glaciers and oceans, and contemplating the Earth from outside its perimeters, etc. 
When banking is no longer so respectable, we lose interest in banking. 
But what I really want to stress is by all means, success, yes. 
Because the emphasis nowadays is so much on the justice of everything, and politicians always talk about justice. 
But it doesn't matter that much that we're putting too much emphasis on that? 
Thank you very much. 
It's a smiling face. 
And when I said I'm going to go out and do a 15-hour swim, and we're coming into the dock after a long day and it's now night, and we come in and it's 14 hours and 58 minutes and I can touch the dock and we're done, the trainer says, That's great. 
Try going in with an armada like we had of 50 people and five boats and CNN's crew, etc. 
And there are sharks. 
And I gathered together, honestly, the world's leading experts in every possible way. 
And a month ago, the 23rd of September, I stood on that shore and I looked across to that long, long faraway horizon and I asked myself, do you have it? 
You're really left alone with your own thoughts. 
First of all, you're going to hit obstacles. 
And even though you're feeling great at any one moment, don't take it for granted, be ready, because there's going to be pain, there's going to be suffering. 
After a couple of days, three days, you tend to rebel in a lot of physical ways. 
I don't know if you can still see the red line here and up the arm. 
He's 29 years old, very well-built, lean, he's six-foot, five, weighs 265 lbs., and he is down. 
I need help, and I can't help Diana. 
The box jelly again -- all across the neck, all across here. 
We've got benadryl on board. If I get stung, I'll just grin and bear it. 
And they have these long 30 to 40 to 50-ft. tentacles. 
Henry, what's your question? 
And I said, Well it's odd that you've learned of this as a noble kind of pursuit, but yeah, I know those guys. 
He said, That's what you need. 
Thank you. 
This hope is still alive. 
Are you going to swim the Atlantic? 
I said, Nope. I didn't know. 
And I left everything and went for a long series of odd jobs. 
They come in a lot of different shapes. 
So I'm always looking for the false cognates or identical words in different languages. 
So I did a series of work where it was identical words in French and in English. 
So if you don't know one of these languages, it's instant learning. 
It's all if. 
And we can use them also as a safety net. 
People tell me their lives, their memories, their aspirations, and I create a mindscape. 
I was also interested in the physicality of this format, because you have to walk to see it. 
So it's like the different layers of what we are made of and what we present to the world as an identity. 
Why do I call it a book? 
After eight years of rejection, I was thrilled to get my first commission with the Percent for Art in New York City. 
Here it's faceted glass in the Bronx. 
Because if you sit a long time in summer in shorts, you will walk away with temporary branding of the story element on your thighs. 
It's a story about transformation and connections. 
And here I've been working for the last three years with a South Bronx developer to bring art to life to low-income buildings and affordable housing. 
And I wanted to give them an escape. 
But the result is always to have stories. 
And you get to think about yourself and your memories, and before you go back into suspension, you edit your memories and you change your personality and so forth. 
But lots of people now live to 90 or 100, unless they shake hands too much or something like that. 
Which, by chimpanzee standards, is very good indeed. 
And I guess I better skip all the rest of this, which are some details on how we might make those smart machines and --  -- and the main idea is in fact that the core of a really smart machine is one that recognizes that a certain kind of problem is facing you. 
Any guesses? 1816. 
What has changed our society has been wireless devices. 
This is the first one. This is an electrocardiogram. 
In the future you're going to be checking all your vital signs, all your vital signs: your heart rhythm, your blood pressure, your oxygen, your temperature, etc. 
If you're an expectant parent, what about the ability to monitor, continuously, fetal heart rate, or intrauterine contractions, and not having to worry so much that things are fine as the pregnancy, and moving over into the time of delivery? 
And then as we go further, today we have continuous glucose sensors. 
I didn't have one of those, but I got the Fitbit. 
Of course how many here have any problems with sleeping? 
And the wake time is in orange. 
OK. So, that's the first night. 
Now, diabetes is one of the big ones. 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease. 
One of the ones I just wanted to mention: The iShoe is another example of a sensor that improves proprioception among the elderly to prevent falling. 
One of them -- we're very fortunate -- is to develop a dedicated institute and that's work that started with the work that Scripps with Qualcomm ... 
The wireless institute, the West Wireless Health Institute, is really the outgrowth of two extraordinary people who are here this evening: Gary and Mary West. And I'd like to give it up for them for getting behind this. 
There's also a tremendous number of techniques that chefs have developed, some about new aesthetics, new approaches to food. 
None of the techniques that these people have developed over the course of the last 20 years is in any of those books. 
Is there a way we can show people food in a way they have not seen it before? 
Then each of the different little pieces around it explain some fact. 
Well, that first cutaway picture worked, so we said, Okay, let's do some more. 
Once you start cutting things in half, you kind of get carried away, so you see we cut the jars in half as well as the pan. 
And each of these text blocks explains a key thing that's going on. 
But to make them palatable, we cut it out of a steel plate and put it in front of a fire and photographed it like this. 
Everybody knows that your various appliances have wattage, right? 
As it comes out of the grinder, you just have a little tray, and you just take it off in little passes, build it up, slice it vertically. 
Now watch closely. This is popcorn. I'll explain it here. 
The popcorn is illustrating a key thing in physics. 
But surgeons in these eras are a little bit more conservative than their bold, trephinating ancestors. 
And he is credited with doing over 4,000 of these public surgeries, wandering around in Europe, which is an astonishing number, when you think that surgery must have been a last resort. 
Joseph Lister was aepsis's, or sterility's, biggest advocate, to a very very skeptical bunch of surgeons. 
The Mayo brothers came out to visit Lister in Europe. 
Something so simple. 
Laparoscopy is doing this kind of surgery: surgery with long instruments through small incisions. 
But there were casualties of this revolution. 
They had to give up their wrists. 
They had to give up intuitive motion in the instruments. 
Now, what you put between those instruments and those hands, is a large, fairly complicated robot. 
And since this was introduced in 1999, a lot of these robots have been out and being used for surgical procedures like a prostatectomy, which is a prostate deep in the pelvis, and it requires fine dissection and delicate manipulation to be able to get a good surgical outcome. 
More useful than a solid gold surgeon, but, still, it's a fairly big capital investment. 
It has to be able to come off of the centerline and then be able to work back toward that centerline. 
It's not so simple. 
For the patient, however, it's transparent. This is all they're going to see. 
It's very exciting to think where we get to go with this. 
As we take these capabilities, and we get to go to the next places, we get to decide what our new surgeries are going to be. 
And I think to really get the rest of the way in that revolution, we need to not just take our hands in in new ways, we also need to take our eyes in in new ways. 
We need to see beyond the surface. 
You know for me, the interest in contemporary forms of slavery started with a leaflet that I picked up in London. 
And I'm going to admit to hubris. 
It was mind-blowing. 
But in fact that kind of bluey color are the countries where we can't find any cases of slavery. 
Well, it builds up with these factors. 
Add in the increased vulnerability of very large numbers of people in the developing world, caused by civil wars, ethnic conflicts, kleptocratic governments, disease ... you name it, you know it. 
But if corruption creeps in and people don't have the opportunity to have that protection of the rule of law, then if you can use violence, if you can use violence with impunity, you can reach out and harvest the vulnerable into slavery. 
All around the world I've been told an almost identical story. 
They said, That guy looked sketchy. I was suspicious, but my children were hungry. 
We needed medicine. 
Ten miles, 100 miles, 1,000 miles later, they find themselves in dirty, dangerous, demeaning work. 
Africans and Indians, as usual, South Americans, and Eastern Europeans in particular are on our buy list. 
D: Interesting. Micheal, bottom line, what do you recommend? 
Kevin Bales: Okay, you figured it out. That's a spoof. 
Slaves cost between 3,000 to 8,000 dollars in North America, but I could take you places in India or Nepal where human beings can be acquired for five or 10 dollars. 
They key here is that people have ceased to be that capital purchase item and become like Styrofoam cups. 
You buy them cheaply, you use them, you crumple them up, and then when you're done with them you just throw them away. 
I've got to say, one of the most exciting parts about my job is that I get to, and I want to introduce you to one of those. 
This is not James, this is one of the kids that he works with. 
And it can be done. 
Liberation, and more importantly all the work that comes after liberation. 
This is what liberation really looks like. 
She said, No, because we've got hope now. 
Okay, thank you so much. 
Despite the New York Times' and Vanity Fair's best efforts recently, they're not brothers.  
This is actually a training film for a clown college that they had. 
There is a picture of Charles. So let's watch the next clip. 
But people live on this land. 
So what we're going to see is some of the icons of Eames furniture. 
And I'm really here to talk about design. 
And this is a little film I made about the making of the Eames lounge chair. 
Because it just kind of, you know, doesn't get any more basic than that. 
This is a relatively famous chair. 
But doing these splints they learned a lot about the manufacturing process, which was incredibly important to them. 
I'm trying to show you too much, because I want you to really get a broth of ideas and images. 
This is a house that Charles and Ray designed. 
My sister is chasing someone else. It's not me. 
Although I endorse heartily the fact that he stole her diary, it's not me. 
The house is 1949. 
And now I'm going to test you. 
I hope you had a nice time at Buddy's party. 
And they honor events in the linear world from the fictional world. 
And then Embassy Row is actually a historical site, because in the Kymaerican story this is where the Parisian Diaspora started, where there embassy was. 
And the town has really embraced it. 
And you're kind of trapped in the texture of Kymaerica. 
And this is Cranbrook. I've got a real treat for you, which is the first film that Charles ever made. 
And he made it for the 1939 faculty exhibition. 
You want to learn how to make films? Go make a movie. 
So my point is that this scope of vision, this holistic vision of design, was with them from the beginning. 
It wasn't like Oh, we made some chairs and got successful. 
So we're going to do the last clip. 
And part of why this stuff is important and all the things that we do are important, is that these are the ideas we need. 
And, working on the idea that the cheapest electric toaster would also be the simplest to reverse-engineer, I went and bought the cheapest toaster I could find, took it home and was kind of dismayed to discover that, inside this object, which I'd bought for just 3.49 pounds, there were 400 different bits made out of a hundred-plus different materials. 
Can I come up and get some iron? 
But after some nagging, I got him to do that. 
But instead of a bellows, I had a leaf blower. 
Plastic is the defining feature of cheap electrical goods. 
And you can actually make plastic from obviously oils which come from plants, but also from starches. 
So this is attempting to make potato starch plastic. 
And it was looking good for a while, but I left it outside, because you had to leave it outside to dry, and unfortunately I came back and there were snails eating the unhydrolyzed bits of potato. 
So kind of out of desperation, I decided that I could think laterally. 
And there it is on the shelves. 
I don't know if you could see, but I was never able to make insulation for the wires. 
They were trying to catch fish. 
However, the report focused on what had already occurred and offered no information on what to expect now. 
Voice 1: It's coming again. Voice 2: New wave? 
You know, if you think about something like Google, which essentially is relying on the collective intelligence of the Web to seek out those sites that have the most valuable information -- we know that Google does an exceptionally good job of doing that, and it does that because, collectively, this disorganized thing we call the World Wide Web actually has a remarkable order, or a remarkable intelligence in it. 
But what the blogosphere offers is the possibility of getting at the kind of collective, distributive intelligence that is out there, and that we know is available to us if we can just figure out a way of accessing it. 
A network is not just the product of its component parts. 
It is something more than that. 
And that phenomenon of piling on the existing links is one that is characteristic of the blogosphere, particularly of the political blogosphere, and it is one that essentially throws off this beautiful, decentralized, bottom-up intelligence that blogs can manifest in the right conditions. 
When we talk about bottom-up, decentralized phenomena, the ant colony is the classic metaphor, because, no individual ant knows what it's doing, but collectively ants are able to reach incredibly intelligent decisions. 
But the pace of exponential growth is really what describes information technologies. 
It makes a huge difference. 
And Moore's Law was not the first paradigm to bring exponential growth to computing. 
When that comes to an end we'll go to the sixth paradigm; three-dimensional self-organizing molecular circuits. 
The Great Depression made not a dent in this exponential progression. 
And I was asked, Well aren't you nervous? 
And the cost of a transistor cycle, which is a measure of the price performance of electronics, comes down about every year. 
But that was really right on schedule. 
Communication technologies: 50 different ways to measure this, the number of bits being moved around, the size of the Internet. 
Some critics say, Oh, well software is stuck in the mud. 
When I was a student it was across campus, now it's in our pockets. 
All the intellectual property that is created and taught will be online and available, and developed online in a collaborative fashion. 
Here is our founding meeting. 
So we're very appreciative of the support we've gotten from both the intellectual leaders, the high-tech leaders, particularly Google and NASA. 
Whole arm. Shoulder disarticulation. 
Not in an envelope of a human arm, with 21 degrees of freedom, from your shoulder to your fingertips. 
You think it's bad to lose one arm? 
We have 14 out of the 21 degrees of freedom; you don't need the ones in the last two fingers. 
A couple of weeks ago we took it down to Walter Reed, which is unfortunately more in the news these days. 
It's going to go inside something that we use in CAT scans and MRIs of whatever is their good arm, to make silicon rubber, then coat it, and paint it in 3D -- exact mirror image of their other limb. 
This weighs 6.9 pounds. 
Now he's going to pick up a pen with his opposed thumb and index finger. 
That's about 10 percent of our global needs and 100 percent of some island nations. 
It all began when two scientists, Fred Grassle and Jesse Ausubel, met in Woods Hole, Massachusetts where both were guests at the famed oceanographic institute. 
They, in fact, are an endangered species themselves. 
So fishermen could only catch what they could either eat or sell that day. 
But this is no laughing matter. 
That's the sort of technology that's available today that really wasn't available even a decade ago. 
And so for animals that come to the surface to breathe, such as this elephant seal, it's an opportunity to send data back to shore and tell us where exactly it is in the ocean. 
For example, the dark blue shows you where the elephant seal moved in the north Pacific. 
For animals that don't surface, we have something called pop-up tags, which collect data about light and what time the sun rises and sets. 
Geneticists have developed a similar tool called genetic barcoding. 
And so they put this together, a list of all the species, where they're known to occur, and it really seemed like a very esoteric, scientific type of exercise. 
So all of a sudden, this labor of love for no obvious economic reason has become a critical piece of information in terms of how that system is going to recover, how long it will take and how the lawsuits and the multi-billion-dollar discussions that are going to happen in the coming years are likely to be resolved. 
You can do this on a global scale, but you can also do it on a regional scale. 
Now while a lot of the species we discovered in the census are things that are small and hard to see, that certainly wasn't always the case. 
Similarly this Golden V kelp collected in Alaska just below the low water mark is probably a new species. 
This particular shrimp, we've dubbed it the Jurassic shrimp, it's thought to have gone extinct 50 years ago -- at least it was, until the census discovered it was living and doing just fine off the coast of Australia. 
Now this little critter, it's only about half a millimeter in size, not terribly charismatic. 
And we also found this spectacular yeti crab that lives near boiling hot hydrothermal vents at Easter Island. 
That means 91 percent, even after the census, still remain to be discovered. 
But the really intriguing thing about the microbes is just how diverse they are. 
A single drop of seawater could contain 160 different types of microbes. 
The other point I'd like to make about this is that this ocean's interconnected. 
Census scientists worked in the rain, they worked in the cold, they worked under water and they worked above water trying to illuminate the wondrous discovery, the still vast unknown, the spectacular adaptations that we see in ocean life. 
So whether you're a yak herder living in the mountains of Chile, whether you're a stockbroker in New York City or whether you're a TEDster living in Edinburgh, the oceans matter. 
 I could show the world how to smile,   I could be glad all of the while.   I could turn the gray skies to blue, if I had you.   I could leave the old days behind,   leave all my pals, Id never mind.   I could start my life all anew, if I had you.   I could climb the snow-capped mountains,   sail the mighty ocean wide.   I could cross the burning desert, if I had you by my side.   I could be a king, dear, uncrowned, humble or poor, rich or renowned.   There is nothing I couldnt do, if I had you.  Thank you. Well, thank you so much. 
And there's a cause for that, all right. 
Well, it's been around for 2,500 years. 
And we do something different than what we did in the past; we add kind of a modicum of intelligence to that. 
If there are 15 operations, you know that none of them work. 
You've heard that word several times in the last four days, and everyone's familiar with Kuhnian paradigms. 
And by the human spirit, I don't mean anything divine, I don't mean anything supernatural -- certainly not coming from this skeptic. 
What I mean is this ability that each of us has to be something greater than herself or himself; to arise out of our ordinary selves and achieve something that at the beginning we thought perhaps we were not capable of. 
There has certainly been no argument about that in this room in the past four days. 
So, if we are to be the world's healer, every disadvantaged person in this world -- including in the United States -- becomes our patient. 
I would like to quote one of my own household gods. 
Think about it. 
Rudimentary animal, has a nervous system, swims around in the ocean in its juvenile life. 
If you put a five year-old child's dexterity against the best robots of today, the answer is simple: the child wins easily. 
When it comes to being dexterous, it's not even clear what the algorithm is you have to solve to be dexterous. 
But let me show you cutting-edge robotics. 
Now the Americans in the audience will know all about cup stacking. 
And it sounds like an easy problem. 
So the old days before digital radio when you were tuning in your radio and you heard crrcckkk on the station you wanted to hear, that was the noise. 
So if you're lucky enough to be able to knock a small white ball into a hole several hundred yards away using a long metal stick, our society will be willing to reward you with hundreds of millions of dollars. 
But we're going to represent beliefs with probabilities. 
But there's another source of information, and that's effectively prior knowledge. 
But you know that your senses are not perfect, and therefore there's some variability of where it's going to land shown by that cloud of red, representing numbers between 0.5 and maybe 0.1. 
That information is available in the current shot, but there's another source of information not available on the current shot, but only available by repeated experience in the game of tennis, and that's that the ball doesn't bounce with equal probability over the court during the match. 
As we go around, we learn about statistics of the world and lay that down, but we also learn about how noisy our own sensory apparatus is, and then combine those in a real Bayesian way. 
So that really means I have to make predictions of the future. 
Any discrepancy should hopefully be external. 
So as I go around the world, I'm making predictions of what I should get, subtracting them off. 
And we replay that to the other hand with a time delay. 
And based on this illustration, we really convinced ourselves in the field that the brain's making precise predictions and subtracting them off from the sensations. 
So we were looking for a much more objective way to assess this phenomena. 
So if they retaliate with the same force, the first person will think it's been escalated. 
Now we don't work with children, we don't work with hitting, but the concept is identical. 
We started with a motor with a little lever, a little force transfuser. 
So it re-shows the brain makes predictions and fundamentally changes the precepts. 
But we've got a problem. 
And there's a big gap between the task and the movement system. 
I could choose these two paths out of an infinite number of paths. 
Maybe we don't all quite move the same way. 
But there's noise added to this. 
So if I pick the same command through many times, I will get a different noisy version each time, because noise changes each time. 
And the fundamental idea is you want to plan your movements so as to minimize the negative consequence of the noise. 
So you want to avoid big forces as one principle. 
So we've shown that using this, we can explain a huge amount of data -- that exactly people are going about their lives planning movements so as to minimize negative consequences of noise. 
All the conversation stopped. All the eyes turned to me. 
And so, what I'd like to do now is to tell you about what we've learned in those journeys. 
They put smart skylights through their stores so they could harvest the daylight and reduce the lighting demands. 
So, let me tell you this: when Wal-Mart achieves 20 percent energy reductions, that's going to be a very big deal. But I'm afraid it's not enough. 
Well, Bob said the most important thing we could do right now is to make it clear in Sacramento, California that we need a market-based system of mandates that's going to cap and reduce greenhouse gases in California. 
Here's a story about national policy that we could all learn from. 
They'd run ethanol or ordinary gasoline. 
So, what's happened in Brazil is, they've replaced 40 percent of the gasoline consumed by their automotive fleet with ethanol. 
So, a team of Berkeley researchers with 15 million dollars from the Gates Foundation is engineering, designing a radical new way to make the key ingredient, called artemisinin, and they're going to make that drug 10 times cheaper. 
Well, I'll tell you -- a lot. 
Second fact: the President's new budget for renewable energy is barely a billion dollars in total. 
Third fact: I bet you didn't know that there's enough energy in hot rocks under the country to supply America's energy needs for the next thousand years. And the federal budget calls for a measly 20 million dollars of R&amp;D in geothermal energy. 
Not enough to stabilize the climate. 
Not enough to keep the ice in Greenland from crashing into the ocean. 
We've got to make this economic so that all people and all nations make the right outcome, the profitable outcome, and therefore the likely outcome. 
It is the mother of all markets. You remember that Internet? 
She's like, Oh, us. I'm like, Okay. All right. That's cool. 
And there's a dude selling these aftermarket weapons for Lego, because Lego -- the Danish -- no, they're not into guns. 
But the Americans? Oh, we'll make some guns for Lego, no problem. 
And at a certain point, you look around, you're like, Whoa, this is a really nerdy crowd. 
I'm kind of into this stuff, and I'm going to stop being embarrassed. 
And so this is like this CAD program where you build it. 
I have to take a moment. 
There's a whole gray market for Lego, thousands of home-based businesses. 
Let's see here. 
That's 300 million years per minute. 
So, this is frozen water. 
The most intriguing and puzzling measurement, in my opinion, we've obtained of Mars, was released earlier this year in the magazine Science. 
And what we're looking at is the presence of the gas methane, CH4, in the atmosphere of Mars. 
That's because the northern hemisphere is the region of the ancient ocean basin. 
And that's because the water protected the basin from being impacted by asteroids and meteorites. 
Here's Hellas Basin, a very very different place, geologically. 
We addressed on the board the major questions that have not been answered. 
And the result of our meeting was a robotic rocket-powered airplane we call ARES. 
And our goal is to inspire the American public who is paying for this mission through tax dollars. 
How do we transport an airplane to Mars? 
And we have it in something called an aeroshell. 
Because we have tested ARES model, several models in a half a dozen wind tunnels at the NASA Langley Research Center for eight years, under Mars conditions. 
We're ready to go. 
This is the ARES team; we have about 150 scientists, engineers; where we're working with Jet Propulsion Laboratory, Goddard Space Flight Center, Ames Research Center and half a dozen major universities and corporations in developing this. 
Thank you very much. 
And my colleague, James Fowler and I have been studying for quite sometime what are the mathematical, social, biological and psychological rules that govern how these networks are assembled and what are the similar rules that govern how they operate, how they affect our lives. 
They actually diffuse through networks. 
You could have friendship relationships, sibling relationships, spousal relationships, co-worker relationships, neighbor relationships and the like. 
Or their altruistic or their charitable giving behavior might be influenced by their coworkers, or by their neighbors. 
Nicholas Christakis: B, it's obvious. 
And what we show here is -- like, here -- very few people are affected, more and more and more and up to here, and here's the peak of the epidemic. 
And if they nominate the party host as their friend, that party host has a hundred friends, therefore, has more friends than they do. 
So, we thought we would exploit this idea in order to study whether we could predict phenomena within networks. 
And also, we had them [actively] email us a couple of times a week. 
By monitoring the friends group, we could get 16 days advance warning of an impending epidemic in this human population. 
Now in our case, although it wasn't necessary, we could also actually map the network of the students. 
We're going to take daily cuts through the network for 120 days. 
Every dot is a person, and every line represents a volume of calls between the people. 
And in fact, we are in the era of what I would call massive-passive data collection efforts. 
They're all kinds of ways we can use massively collected data to create sensor networks to follow the population, understand what's happening in the population, and intervene in the population for the better. 
One is quasi-active, like the flu example I gave, where we get some people to nominate their friends and then passively monitor their friends -- do they have the flu, or not? -- and then get warning. 
They collect millions of points at a time with very high accuracy and very high resolution. 
They were gone in an instant. 
The Royal Tombs had been destroyed by suspected arson. 
Let me leave you with a final thought. 
And that was that an American congresswoman named Patricia Schroeder from Colorado met with a group of journalists. 
It will refer you directly to your congressperson, to your U.S. senator, to your governor where divestment legislation is pending. 
For instance, the referral of the crimes in Darfur to the International Criminal Court, which the Bush administration doesn't like. 
He moved with the headlines. 
But, uh-oh, the killers are within the camps. 
Well, if you denounce, you're probably never going to get back in the room. 
You're un-owned. 
He started as somebody who would denounce harmdoers, he would charge up to people who were violating international law, and he would say, you're violating, this is the U.N. Charter. 
All the great progress in this country with relation to our adversaries has come by going into the room. 
There's going to be a lot of people. 
But it never struck me as it did that moment, because on that image was a woman trying to nurse her baby, and she had no milk to nurse. 
A hundred years ago, we didn't. 
At our time in history, these images are out of place. 
This is more than HIV/AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis combined. 
And here you see a brain scan of two children -- one who had adequate nutrition, another, neglected and who was deeply malnourished. 
And so today we focus on not just passing out food, but making sure the mothers have enough enrichment, and teaching them about breastfeeding. 
It doesn't need to be refrigerated, it doesn't need water, which is often lacking. 
Eighty percent of the people in the world have no food safety net. 
And usually the institutions -- churches, temples, other things -- do not have the resources to provide a safety net. 
And if you fill the cup with local agriculture from small farmers, you have a transformative effect. 
Many kids in the world can't go to school because they have to go beg and find a meal. 
It costs less than 25 cents a day to change a kid's life. 
Families need the help. 
So is this a hopeless cause? 
Cameroon, northern Cameroon, boom and bust cycles of hunger every year for decades. 
Food aid coming in every year when people are starving during the lean seasons. 
You manage, the village manages these warehouses. 
And the food banks are growing. 
We're seeing that now in the Horn of Africa where food prices are up 240 percent in some areas over last year. 
The shopkeepers are hiring more people. 
And they require that a third of that food come from the smallest farmers who would have no opportunity. 
I've gone out there; I've met with the small farmers who have built their livelihoods on the opportunity and platform provided by this. 
You look at the cost-benefit analysis, and my dream is to take this issue, not just from the compassion argument, but to the finance ministers of the world, and say we cannot afford to not invest in the access to adequate, affordable nutrition for all of humanity. 
When a leader says, Not under my watch, everything begins to change. 
WFP's been able to leave 30 nations because they have transformed the face of hunger in their nations. 
Not only that, transforming hunger is an opportunity, but I think we have to change our mindsets. 
What's exciting is that over the last two or three years, the government has spent 400 million dollars, and they've allocated another billion dollars, to what we call the Cancer Genome Atlas Project. 
The Cancer Genome Atlas is coming out now. 
There's also a field of proteomics that I'll talk about in a few minutes, which I think is going to be the next level in terms of understanding and classifying disease. 
Cancer is an interaction of a cell that no longer is under growth control with the environment. 
The goal of me as a cancer doctor is not to understand cancer. 
You know, if I measured your temperature over 30 days, and I asked, What was the average temperature? 
I mean, this is a scary slide, not to take an aside, but it looks at obesity in the world. 
So, our systems today are dramatically different than our systems a decade or two ago. 
That is the most effective, cost-effective, best way we can do things today. 
Sounds are affecting your hormone secretions all the time, but also your breathing, your heart rate -- which I just also did -- and your brainwaves. 
It has the frequency of roughly 12 cycles per minute. 
There are eight expressions of a brand in sound. 
You all recognize that one.  This is the most-played tune in the world today. 
Why are we doing this? 
The first is, it's essential for us to understand the human brain if we do want to get along in society, and I think that it is a key step in evolution. 
And you may think that anesthetics work by sending you into some deep sleep, or by blocking your receptors so that you don't feel pain, but in fact most anesthetics don't work that way. 
99 percent of what you see is not what comes in through the eyes. 
They are highly reactive, and they are super-plastic, and so the autists are probably capable of building and learning a symphony which is unthinkable for us. 
They choose very carefully who they connect with. 
And we did that for tens of thousands of neurons, built digital models of all the different types of neurons we came across. 
And we think this is species-specific, which means that that could explain why we can't communicate across species. 
So, let's switch it on. But to do it, what you have to do is you have to make this come alive. 
There literally are only a handful of equations that you need to simulate the activity of the neocortex. 
Here we activate it. And this gives the first glimpse of what is happening in your brain when there is a stimulation. 
We can ask, Where is it inside, if we stimulate it with a picture? 
Fifty years ago, when I began exploring the ocean, no one -- not Jacques Perrin, not Jacques Cousteau or Rachel Carson -- imagined that we could do anything to harm the ocean by what we put into it or by what we took out of it. 
I want to share with you my personal view of changes in the sea that affect all of us, and to consider why it matters that in 50 years, we've lost -- actually, we've taken, we've eaten -- more than 90 percent of the big fish in the sea; why you should care that nearly half of the coral reefs have disappeared; why a mysterious depletion of oxygen in large areas of the Pacific should concern not only the creatures that are dying, but it really should concern you. 
I'm haunted by the thought of what Ray Anderson calls tomorrow's child, asking why we didn't do something on our watch to save sharks and bluefin tuna and squids and coral reefs and the living ocean while there still was time. 
For me, as a scientist, it all began in 1953 when I first tried scuba. 
Since then, I've used about 30 kinds of submarines and I've started three companies and a nonprofit foundation called Deep Search to design and build systems to access the deep sea. 
And I'm living proof. 
No matter where on Earth you live. 
Over time, most of the planet's organic carbon has been absorbed and stored there, mostly by microbes. 
You did a great job with the land, the dirt. 
We need new deep-diving submarines. 
That's bad news for us too. 
We're putting hundreds of millions of tons of plastic and other trash into the sea. 
Millions of tons of discarded fishing nets, gear that continues to kill. 
We're still killing bluefin tuna; truly endangered and much more valuable alive than dead. 
Using Google Earth you can witness trawlers -- in China, the North Sea, the Gulf of Mexico -- shaking the foundation of our life support system, leaving plumes of death in their path. 
Together we had just broken the world speed record for a trek to the South Pole. 
Now, many of you are probably saying, Wait a sec, is this tough to do? 
You'll be in a massive headwind. 
Virtually none. All of our equipment, including film equipment, was charged by the sun. 
Look at that central building right in the middle of the picture: that's the 130-foot diameter library, that is exactly the size of the base of the spaceship. 
Two days later, the space traveler's manifesto explaining why -- just like we heard yesterday -- why we need to go into space: trips to satellites of the outer planets. August 20, 1958. 
And that's why when you get something declassified, that's what it looks like.  
This is Ed Day putting ... So each of these coffee cans has three pounds of C4 in it. 
So, thanks to him. 
And now we have ground hazard assessments when you have a blow-up on the pad. 
This is the kind of stuff that's not been declassified, just that people managed to sneak home and after, you know, on their deathbed basically gave me. 
And one part of NASA was interested in it but the headquarters in NASA, they killed the project. 
So finally at the end, we can see the thing followed its sort of design path right up to 1965 and then all those paths came to a halt. 
And it turned out to be quite fun in two ways. 
And to the extent you believe I didn't shrink the lines, which I didn't, I've proven to you that your eyes were deceiving you. 
Right? It's impossible to overcome this sense that this is indeed longer. 
Turns out that they got to 28 percent after mailing every household in the country a letter begging people to join this organ donation program. 
When you walk into the DMV, the person who designed the form will have a huge influence on what you'll end up doing. 
What do you do? Do you pull the patient back and try ibuprofen? 
The other group of the physicians, they said, Yesterday when you reviewed the case you discovered there were two medications you didn't try out yet, ibuprofen and piroxicam. 
Now think of it. This decision makes it as easy to let the patient continue with hip replacement. 
The thing is is that no physician would ever say, Piroxicam, ibuprofen, hip replacement. 
An online subscription for 59 dollars. 
These are the market share. Most people wanted the combo deal. 
The answer was absolutely yes. 
Now you're getting it. 
And we also have more than five billion of these devices here. 
These 1.4 million cellular radio masts, or base stations, consume a lot of energy. 
And that creates a big problem. 
it's good for a nice suntan, but otherwise dangerous for the human body. 
And multiply that by 10,000, then you end up at 14 billion. 
Not usable for a YouTube video. 
And the light goes through that hole. 
And that signal is then converted back to a high-speed data stream. 
And not only integrate a photo detector here, but maybe use the camera inside. 
So what happens when I switch on that light? 
But at the same time, you see this video coming up here. 
So no one, if I have a light here, if I have secure data, no one on the other side of this room through that wall would be able to read that data. 
So for me, the applications of it, to me, are beyond imagination at the moment. 
And they use light to illuminate space down there. 
If you saw 2001: A Space Odyssey, and you heard the boom, boom, boom, boom, and you saw the monolith, you know, that was Arthur C. Clarke's representation that we were at a seminal moment in the evolution of our species. 
And, you know, we in the last 30 years in particular have seen this acceleration in knowledge and technology, and technology has bred more knowledge and given us tools. 
And we've seen many seminal moments. 
You're walking around; your car has 12 microprocessors. 
Then we go along and create the Internet and connect the world together; we flatten the world. 
The DNA is organized in words, call them: genes and chromosomes. 
DNA is a very elegant molecule. 
This here is a bug in my genome that I have struggled with for a long, long time. 
What is the code? 
then you can go about the process of trying to fix it and figure it out. 
For my wife: eat three times as much and you never put on any weight. 
It's all hidden in this code, and it's starting to be understood at breakneck pace. 
We can understand, for example, why we create plaque in our arteries, what creates the starchiness inside of a grain, why does yeast metabolize sugar and produce carbon dioxide. 
We can also look at, at a grander scale, what creates problems, what creates disease, and how we may be able to fix them. 
Now, you have the genome and you say to yourself, So, if I plug this synthetic genome -- if I pull the old one out and plug it in -- does it just boot up and live? 
And this is extremely profound. 
So, then what do you do? 
We can start to figure that out. 
And he had the best answer I ever heard to this question: Well, somebody has to. 
You cannot compete with the environment, if you have an adolescent dog's brain. 
Go on, something should happen now. 
No, we go, Puppy, sit -- boom, it's got it in six to 10 trials. 
He'll find Jamie wherever he is, you know, wherever kids are, crushing rocks by a stream or something, and take him a little message that says, Hey, dinner's ready. Come in for dinner. 
So, at this point, the dog knows what we want it to do. 
The dog lives with you, the dog can get you any time. 
So the second stage in training is to teach the dog to want to do what we want him to do, and this is very easy. 
And what we're doing, in essence, is we're teaching the dog, kind of like -- we're letting the dog think that the dog is training us. 
And now the dog's really happy. 
There's several definitions of what a punishment is, but one definition, the most popular, is: a punishment is a stimulus that reduces the immediately preceding behavior, such that it's less likely to occur in the future. 
The dog is actually euthanized now, but this was a dog I worked with for a while. 
When the dog would try to leave the mat, she would say, Rover, on the mat, on the mat, on the mat. 
How are you going to reprimand a grizzly bear? 
Rover, come here. Rover, come here, you son of a bitch. 
And I went, Oh my God, do I do something? 
The husband won't clear up his clothes, or the wife's always late for meetings, whatever it is, OK? 
You see it especially in the workplace, especially from boss to employee. 
And this, I would say, is the biggest human foible that we have. 
Your kids are easy to train. 
We think how we do it -- one night in bed, we're pregnant, and then we're raising the most important thing in life, a child. 
And it concludes in something that you see here, that you actually wouldn't expect as being the result of rationality. 
I call it sort of shotgun flexibility. 
So what you're seeing now is actually the design of the building. 
So that was the core idea. 
So, once we had presented that back to them, they agreed that this sort of core concept could work. 
The things on the -- on the left-hand side of the diagram, those are the boxes. 
That skin serves double duty, again for economics. 
So it's an unusual building for a public library, obviously. 
That was the main sort of technology area in the building. 
You dizzy yet? 
And it allowed us to go back to first principles, and redefine fly tower, acoustic enclosure, light enclosure and so forth. 
They came to us and they said -- unlike normal developers -- they said, We want to start out by providing a contemporary art museum in Louisville. That's our main goal. 
And so instead of being a developer that sees an opportunity to make money, they saw an ability to be a catalyst in their downtown. 
And that pro forma led us to a mixed-use building that was very large in order to support their aspirations of the art, but it also opened up opportunities for the art itself to collaborate, interact with commercial spaces that actually artists more and more want to work within. 
And there is a pedestrian corridor that they wanted to add that would link a series of cultural buildings, and a view corridor -- because this is the historic district -- that they didn't want to obstruct with the new building. 
It also means that if an artist wants to invade something like a swimming pool, they can begin to do their exhibition in a swimming pool, so they're not forced to always work within the confines of a contemporary gallery space. 
OK. Now, you're 19 now? 
And I tried, and I made it. 
And you made it out of what? 
And so, and that windmill, what -- it worked? 
Yeah. 
So what did they make of -- that you were 14, 15 at the time -- what did they make of this? They were impressed? 
Yeah. 
So that would produce irrigation for the entire village? 
Because it gets into all sorts of crazy realms. 
 This is a loop, feedback loop   This is a loop, feedback loop   This is a loop, feedback loop   This is a loop, feedback loop   This is a loop, feedback loop   This is a loop, feedback loop   This is a --  All right. I don't know if that was necessary to demonstrate --  -- but my point is it's the sound of self-destruction. 
There seems to be a rule in nature that if you get too close to where you came from, it gets ugly. 
The oil was running out, and a nuclear winter would finish us off. 
It just tells you they were both designed to fit the human hand. 
Homo erectus made the same tool for 30,000 generations. 
Of course there were a few changes, but tools changed slower than skeletons in those days. 
It's an extraordinary phenomenon, but it's true. 
And more than that, it's a confection of different ideas, the idea of plastic, the idea of a laser, the idea of transistors. 
One goes extinct for the other to survive. 
So what sex does is it enables the individual to draw upon the genetic innovations of the whole species. 
So Oz is better at both spears and axes than Adam. 
Ask yourself how long you would have to work to provide for yourself an hour of reading light this evening to read a book by. 
And that's seven and a half seconds of prosperity that you've gained since 1950, as it were, because that's seven and a half seconds in which you can do something else, or you can acquire another good or service. 
They were a highly intelligent species. 
The reason: because Tierra del Fuego is separated from South America by a much narrower straight, and there was trading contact across that straight throughout 10,000 years. 
The Tasmanians were isolated. 
It's not the same with language. 
With language we have to transfer ideas that we understand with each other. 
There will be wars; there will be depressions; there will be natural disasters. 
My work is about the behaviors that we all engage in unconsciously, on a collective level. 
And as individuals, we all do these things, all the time, everyday. 
It's like when you're mean to your wife because you're mad at somebody else. 
Or when you overeat because your feelings are hurt, or whatever. 
That's 15 minutes of our cup consumption. 
And if you could actually stack up that many cups in real life, that's the size it would be. 
I wanted to make a piece that shows the actual number of Americans who die from cigarette smoking. 
And we aren't talking about it -- we dismiss it. 
And strangely enough, the only plastic surgery that is more popular than breast augmentation is liposuction, and most of that is being done by men. 
My belief is that you don't have to make yourself bad to look at these issues. 
How can we investigate this flora of viruses that surround us, and aid medicine? 
But evolution is a balance: where you have fast change, you also have ultra-conservation -- things that almost never change. 
And so we looked into this a little more carefully, and I'm going to show you data now. 
Down here you can see slower evolution: less diversity. 
OK, so that's what we did, but how are we going to do that? 
If you've got enough money to buy just a Camry, you can build one of these too, and so we put a deep how-to guide on the Web, totally free, with basically order-off-the-shelf parts. 
And so what we did -- and this is a really cool project -- we just started by making a respiratory virus chip. 
That's the scourge of daycare centers everywhere -- it's like boogeremia, basically. 
And so it is not any one stripe or something that tells me I have a virus of a particular type here; it's the barcode that in bulk represents the whole thing. 
That's me, getting a nasal lavage. 
Actually, we thought the nasal tract might be full of viruses even when you're walking around healthy. 
So that's great, but again, cheap shot, right? 
So, we built out the chip. 
Now we're using this chip. And what are we using it for? 
And this is what this looks like. 
And that is, in fact, what these particular cell cultures are chronically infected with. 
So let's do something a little bit harder. 
They did a CT scan. 
Switch antibiotics: so they switched to another antibiotic, Tamiflu. 
There's almost no epidemiology or studies on it. 
And why is that? Just lore. There's no data -- no data to support whether it causes severe or mild disease. 
It doesn't make sense -- unless, maybe, there's a virus? 
And this is a little phylogenetic tree to see how it's related to other viruses. 
Is it the case that these guys are just more susceptible to viruses? 
This was all done by folks in the lab -- I cannot take credit for most of this. 
I'm talking about the production of aluminum. 
The electrolyte is not a solution of salt and water, but rather salt that's melted. 
So now, how to choose the metals? 
I felt the thrill of realization when I knew I'd come upon the answer. 
It's pretty cool, at least in theory. 
We go to the laboratory. 
No, I hire a student and mentor him, teach him how to think about the problem, to see it from my perspective and then turn him loose. 
And I was able to attract really, really good people, people who share my passion for science and service to society, not science and service for career building. 
I went to Aspen recently and stumbled into this song. 
 Black men go to Aspen   and rent colorful chalets.   Giggle at the questions   their mere presence seems to raise.   Get taken for men   we don't resemble in the least.  Are you ... ? 
And since they discovered those things, it really stuck with them so much more, and also they would experience their own failures; there was a failure-based aspect to learning there. It was very important. 
And another thing that really impressed me a long time ago was Powers of Ten, Charles and Ray Eames' film. 
And so I'm going to show you a toy today that I've been working on, that I think of more than anything else as kind of a philosophy toy. 
Now, we actually play through many generations here, at the cellular scale. 
But basically, this is the editor where we're going to design the next generation of our creature. So it has a little spine. 
But really the goal here was, within about a minute, I wanted somebody to replicate what typically takes a pictorial artist several weeks to create. 
OK, now I'll put some hands on it. 
And I can see how it might dance. 
I can also play with the dynamics of this world over time. 
And our cities are going to be at risk too, because a lot of these are coastal cities. 
Here it is, some indigenous life down here. 
You see, now they've actually gone to tribal dynamics. 
I think I'll leave before they get hostile. 
But these are the things that we can kind of put in this little galaxy here. 
Because I think most of the problems that our world is facing right now is the result of short-term thinking, and the fact that it is so hard for us to think 50, 100, or 1,000 years out. 
And so I'm going to talk a little bit about that, keeping in mind that we have a lot on the program here. 
What's in it for the ant? 
No, it's worse than that. 
There are a lot of ideas to die for. 
The secret of happiness is: Find something more important than you are and dedicate your life to it. 
Actually, I think we're all responsible for not just the intended effects of our ideas, but for their likely misuses. 
So let me just point out: memes are like viruses. 
And you might think, Well, how can that be? 
They're made of information, and can be carried in any physical medium. 
Not just the priests. Everybody. 
After all, the meme for Shaker-dom was essentially a sterilizing parasite. 
But among all those ideas that inevitably flow out into the whole world thanks to our technology, are a lot of toxic ideas. 
And it's not our fault, anymore than it's our fault when our germs lay waste to people that haven't developed the immunity. 
We drove to the Goodwill and we threw the sweater away somewhat ceremoniously, my idea being that I would never have to think about the sweater nor see it ever again. 
I tell that story, because it has served and continues to serve as a metaphor to me about the level of connectedness that we all have on this Earth. 
It's thrilling. 
First, she talked about comfort, status, beauty. 
And we've started making curtains, and not only is it beautiful, but people can see status -- that you care about your children. 
Thank you. 
My job depends upon it. 
Up to and around about the Second World War, conductors were invariably dictators -- these tyrannical figures who would rehearse, not just the orchestra as a whole, but individuals within it, within an inch of their lives. 
Let's be under no illusions. 
Simply through singing. 
So we got some shows off the ground. We started touring them internationally. 
One of them was Carmen. 
I want to play you a tiny clip of it now for no other reason than to give you proof positive that there is nothing tiny about South African music making. 
They don't read music. 
And yet, ladies and gentlemen, every single one of us on this planet probably engages with music on a daily basis. 
I've got a little experiment I want to try with you. 
T, see it's the same as F in music. 
There I am like a bloody windmill again, you see. 
The music will start, and then at a signal from me, you will sing that. 
One more time, with feeling, ladies and gentlemen. 
It's going to be Britain's first ever national disabled orchestra. 
Clarence: I would rather be able to play an instrument again than walk. 
I only wish that some of those musicians were here with us today, so you could see at firsthand how utterly extraordinary they are. 
If any of you thinks you want to help me in any way to achieve what is a fairly impossible and implausible dream still at this point, please let me know. 
Haydn remonstrated with the prince, but to no avail. 
 Like the heather   on the hillside   as they drove us   from the Highlands   Like the ice flow   from the Arctic   where we landed   in Newfoundland   There's a color   to my sorrow   There's a name for   all this sadness   Like the ocean   in between us   I am blue   Blue is a river   Blue remembered   Blue water   running clear   Blue like a planet   to a spaceman   Blue river   of my tears    So I came here   to the city   where the dream burns   like a furnace   And I dazzled   in these dark streets   like a diamond   in a coalface   Then the cold wind   from the islands   blew a storm cloud   across the new moon   Like the gun smoke   above the houses   in my home   Blue is a river   Blue remembered   Blue water   running clear   Blue like a planet   to a spaceman   Blue river   of my tears   Blue river   of my tears    Well, the subject of difficult negotiation reminds me of one of my favorite stories from the Middle East, of a man who left to his three sons 17 camels. 
Seventeen doesn't divide by two. 
The wise old woman thought about their problem for a long time, and finally she came back and said, Well, I don't know if I can help you, but at least, if you want, you can have my camel. 
They had one camel left over. 
Now if you think about that story for a moment, I think it resembles a lot of the difficult negotiations we get involved in. 
As I've spent the last better part of three decades, almost four, traveling the world, trying to work, getting involved in conflicts ranging from Yugoslavia to the Middle East to Chechnya to Venezuela, some of the most difficult conflicts on the face of the planet, I've been asking myself that question. 
So how do they deal with their differences? 
But what we don't often see is that there's always a third side, and the third side of the conflict is us, it's the surrounding community, it's the friends, the allies, the family members, the neighbors. 
Perhaps the most fundamental way in which the third side can help is to remind the parties of what's really at stake. 
And we met in the Hague, in the Peace Palace, in the same room where the Yugoslav war crimes tribunal was taking place. 
And then he went on, and then he turned to me and said, You're an American. 
Now I don't pretend to have an answer to the Middle East conflict, but I think I've got a first step, literally, a first step, something that any one of us could do as third-siders. 
And so my question is, yes, let's try and resolve the politics there in the Middle East, but let's also take a look at the story. 
Let's see if we can apply the third side to it. 
What would that mean? What is the story there? 
Now as anthropologists, we know that every culture has an origin story. 
That man, of course, was Abraham. 
What's the opposite of terrorism? 
It's taking an innocent stranger and treating them as a friend whom you welcome into your home in order to sow and create understanding, or respect, or love. 
And that's what comes to the first step here. 
That's the essence of the Abraham path. 
So what we discovered is that Abraham is not just a figure out of a book for those people. 
And just a couple weeks ago, there was an NPR story on it. 
And they quoted a villager who said, This walk connects us to the world. 
She's partially blind, her husband can't work, she's got seven kids. 
And so more and more walkers have come, and lately she's begun to earn an income to support her family. 
So my question is, if it can be done in Europe, why not in the Middle East? 
That's walking Abraham's path. 
After a TEDTalk, why not a TEDWalk? 
There's an old African proverb that goes: When spider webs unite, they can halt even the lion. 
If we're able to unite our third-side webs of peace, we can even halt the lion of war. 
Well, what is needed for the earliest possible warning of a heart attack? 
A means to determine if there's a complete blockage of a coronary artery. 
And if we had a computer put into the body of a person who's at risk, we could know, before they even have symptoms, that they're having a heart attack, to save their life. 
And what we tried with the pig was external electrodes on the skin, like you see in an emergency room, and I'm going to show you why they don't work very well. 
Next to it, at 30 seconds, you see this rise here, then this rise -- that's the ST elevation. 
Then, on Friday at 6:43, he began to get certain signs, which later we had the pig run around -- I'm not going to go into this early stage. 
Finally, if you're lucky, you are treated in three or four hours after the incident, but the heart muscle has died. 
And now I want to talk about something entirely different. 
So here's a picture of what we're doing. 
There's this migraine that is preceded by a visual aura, and this visual aura, by the way -- and I'll show you a picture -- but it sort of begins with little dancing lights, gets bigger and bigger until it fills your whole visual field. 
Christina Sidebottom: Well, my first reaction was that it was -- looked awfully gun-like, and it was very strange. 
The most severe headaches responded better after we did it several times, and the unexpected finding indicates that even established headaches, not only those with aura, get treated and get diminished. 
Well, responsive electrical stimulation means that we sense, at a place in your brain which is called an epileptic focus, which is where the epileptic seizure begins -- we sense there, that it's going to happen, and then we respond by applying an electrical energy at that spot, which erases the errant signal so that you don't get the clinical manifestations of the migraine headache. 
That concludes my discussion of epilepsy, which is the third invention that I want to discuss here this afternoon. 
We want to have some people, who really know how to do this, perform human engineering studies to develop the optimum design for the portable device for treating migraine headaches. 
And that is the second wish. 
We needed to take what we had built and create a platform out of it so that it could be used elsewhere in the world. 
And so there is a team of developers from all over Africa, who are part of this team now -- from Ghana, from Malawi, from Kenya. 
What is the veracity level of what you're looking at? 
So you've got a lot of information. That's great. 
Take the crowd and apply them to the information. 
And we are very happy to be part of the TED family. 
It's inevitable, terrible, but really what I want to talk about is, I'm just fascinated by the legacy people leave when they die. 
A value for things with a personal touch -- an autograph book, a soul-searching letter. 
If a fraction of this powerful TED audience could be inspired to buy a beautiful paper -- John, it'll be a recycled one -- and write a beautiful letter to someone they love, we actually may start a revolution where our children may go to penmanship classes. 
So what do I plan to leave for my son? 
I plan to publish my own notebook. 
I have no idea how I'm going to do it, but I am committed to compiling his thoughts and mine into a book, and leave that published book for my son. 
What's happened in the music world is there's a culture or an ecosystem that's been created that, if you take some words from Apple, the catchphrase that we create, rip, mix and burn. 
And what that's done is it's created, like I said, a vibrant community that's very inclusive with people continually working to connect musical ideas, innovate them and keep things constantly up to date. 
Imagine making it free, so that anyone in the world can have access to all of this knowledge, and imagine using information technology so that you can update this content, improve it, play with it, on a timescale that's more on the order of seconds instead of years. 
In fact, a lot of this use coming from Unites States, K-through-12 schools because anyone who's involved in a school scale back, the first thing that's cut is the music curriculum and so this is just indicating the tremendous thirst for this kind of open, free content. 
We've been working with AMD, which has a project called 50 by '15, which is trying to bring Internet connectivity to 50 percent of the world's population by 2015. 
In particular, a bunch of the projects that are funded by Hewlett Foundation, who have taken a real leadership role in this area of open content. 
OK, burn, I think this is sort of, quite interesting. 
How much would it cost in a bookstore? 
Why does it cost 22 dollars? 
Remember we took the book, tore the pages out? 
Imagine music XML that actually lets you delve into the semantic structure of music, play with it, understand it. 
Even the three wise men. 
Because we're saying that anybody can contribute things to this commons. Anybody can contribute anything. 
So, thanks very much. 
I've been at MIT for 44 years. I went to TED I. 
Everybody agrees that whatever the solutions are to the big problems, they include education, sometimes can be just education, and can never be without some element of education. 
So with those as the principles -- some of you may know Seymour Papert; this is back in 1982, when we were working in Senegal. 
Here we're in the '80s. 
And these kids, their first English word is Google, and they only know Skype. They've never heard of telephony. 
Screw you. Go to the back of the line and someone else will do it, and then when you figure out that this works, you can join as well. 
And the idea is to launch with enough scale that the scale itself helps bring the price down, and that's why I said seven to 10 million there. 
Now once people start looking at this, they say, ah, this is a laptop project. 
Because laptop economics are the following: I say 50 percent here; it's more like 60, 60 percent of the cost of your laptop is sales, marketing, distribution and profit. 
OK, I've been using laptops since their inception. 
The dual mode display -- the idea is to have a display that both works outdoors -- isn't it fun using your cell phone outdoors in the sunlight? 
And in about 30 days we'll know for sure whether this works. 
Probably the most important piece there is that the kids really can do the maintenance. 
So this is just a mechanical engineering sort of embodiment of it for you to play with. 
Everybody thinks they know about education, a lot of culture is built into it as well. 
Well, guess what, we're not. 
Because there's no market for post office trucks. 
You can spray paint it; you can do anything you want. 
That came from a 1960 paper on space travel, because, if you think about it, space is pretty awkward. 
He said, No, no, no. Here's a better way. 
And he said, Well, okay. 
And if you were able to print out everybody in your cell phone, the room would be very crowded. 
These are the people that you have access to right now, in general -- all of these people, all of your friends and family that you can connect to. 
But when you actually visualize it, all the connections that we're doing right now -- this is an image of the mapping of the Internet -- it doesn't look technological. 
It actually looks very organic. 
It's that they're helping us to be more human, helping us to connect with each other. 
We're just increasing our humanness and our ability to connect with each other, regardless of geography. 
So that's why I study cyborg anthropology. 
and people are initially reluctant to tell you. 
We talk about things in relative terms. 
And so when we look at these PMTCT programs, what does it mean? 
Imagine yourself, if you can, you're a young woman in Africa, you're going to the hospital or clinic. 
And you don't know who you can talk to, because the truth is, HIV is so stigmatizing that if you partner, your family, anyone in your home, you're likely to be thrown out without any means of support. 
And this -- this is the face and story of HIV in Africa today. 
But we're here to talk about possible solutions and some good news. 
Our organization, mothers2mothers, enlists women with HIV as care providers. 
But if you wanted to understand what that surgery would do to your life, you'd like to engage someone, someone who's had the procedure. 
And so doctors and nurses -- they look up to them as experts. 
Men are not frequently part of pregnancy care. 
And this is so important in breaking through the stigma. 
And if we can change enough communities, we can change national attitudes. 
We have the medicines, we have the tests, but how do you reduce the stigma? 
I've been afraid to tell everybody. 
How do you build a better health care system? 
And our organization helps women across that bridge. 
The program is now working in nine countries, we have 670 program sites, we're seeing about 230,000 women every month, we're employing 1,600 mentor mothers, and last year, they enrolled 300,000 HIV-positive pregnant women and mothers. 
All of this is possible, if we each contribute to this fight. 
Thank you. 
Then they irradiate our food, trying to make it last longer, so it can travel thousands of miles from where it's grown to the supermarkets. 
This man, Joel Salatin, they call him a lunatic farmer because he grows against the system. 
Since I'm home-schooled, I went to go hear him speak one day. 
I want you to know that there are farmers' markets in every community popping up. 
Not too long ago, my uncle said that he offered my six-year-old cousin cereal. 
Now we had a Harvard professor here -- she was from Harvard, I just wanted to mention and -- and she was actually a professor from Harvard. 
The scales here are religiosity from zero percent, or atheist, to 100 percent, Bible literally true. 
Now let's talk about some of the characteristics that are important for this revolutionary device. 
First of all, it needs to be small. 
Now, I bought this device from Clifford Stoll for about 900 bucks. 
Free Bird. 
OK, one more time -- I'm just going to give you a little help. 
And finally, we're going to put the Marriott Hotel and the Portola Plaza on the top. 
Mr. Vice President, I wish I knew how to quit you. 
And Sylvia Earle and I were on an expedition in this submarine 20 years ago in Japan. 
But when I got there, I found lots of plastic garbage and other debris. 
It's in the mid-Pacific. It's about five days from anywhere. 
So that's when I first learned of the Islands and had no idea what I was getting into. 
It's a very deep-water part of our planet. 
But we got up there, and I had the unique and wonderful scientific opportunity and personal opportunity to get to a place that had never been dived and just get to an island and go, Okay, where are we going to dive? 
Let's try there, and then falling into the water. 
The Phoenix Islands and all the equatorial parts of our planet are very important for tuna fisheries, especially this yellowfin tuna that you see here. 
So I thought the scenes of never-ending wilderness would go on forever, but they did finally come to an end. 
They basically are one nation that controls most of the equatorial waters of the Central Pacific Ocean. 
And for some reason they didn't want me to come, or it was hard to find a time and a place, and it took a while, but finally they said, Okay, you can come. 
And I was free for dinner, and I went out to dinner with the Minister of Fisheries in Kiribati. 
It had occurred on land, in rainforests of South America and Africa, where landowners had been paid not to cut the trees down. 
So we had very strong leadership, very good vision and a lot of science, a lot of lawyers involved. 
So suddenly we had this area that we were protecting, but now it appeared to be dead, at least in the coral areas. 
And that's the story with climate-change heating. 
And we are now in the process of raising the full endowment. 
And I actually went to see some of the design companies in Hong Kong in my stay there. 
And I'll just give you one example. I had gotten my first Walkman. 
Last November, a museum opened in Tokyo called The Mori Museum, in a skyscraper, up on the 56th floor. 
And, for sure, I haven't looked at the sky in the same way after spending an hour in there. 
You know, one is: just working without pressure. 
This is, you know, related to it: getting out of the studio. 
Again, we could supply the content for it. 
Icons like Batman, Superman, Wonder Woman and their colleagues will be teaming up with icons Jabbar, Noora, Jami and their colleagues. 
As Christian iconography got changed, and swastikas were created out of crucifixes, Batman and Superman were created by Jewish young men in the United States and Canada, also going back to the Bible. 
Superman is not only sent to Earth from the heavens, or Krypton, but he's sent in a pod, much like Moses was on the Nile. 
So 33 of the stones are smuggled onto the Nina, the Pinta and the Santa Maria and are spread in the New World. 
To which he said, Let them be, because what they're giving us is worth a lot more than what we're paying them. 
So these 99 stones, a few kind of rules in the game: Number one, you don't choose the stone; the stone chooses you. 
Well ... 
We have Jabbar from Saudi who starts breaking things when he has the power. 
I'm like, are all the girls going to be kind and merciful and the guys all strong? 
That's not timely. 
And that led to all kinds of things, from being in curricula in universities and schools to -- one of my favorite pictures I have from South Asia, it was a couple of men with long beards and a lot of girls wearing the hijab -- it looked like a school. 
Opened a theme park through a license in Kuwait a year and a half ago called The 99 Village Theme Park -- 300,000 square feet, 20 rides, all with our characters: a couple back-to-school licenses in Spain and Turkey. 
Rughal: There must be something we can do. 
Dr. Razem: It's time to go, Miklos. 
You are Noora the Light. 
I don't deserve it. I don't deserve anything. 
Jabbar: We're here to help you. 
Miklos: No. He gave me access, and you want to reboot the [unclear]. No more [unclear]. 
As the father of five sons, I worry about who they're going to be using as role models. 
And torture's a terrible enough thing as it is, but when it's done by your hero, that just breaks you in so many ways. 
Now, one of the things that I refer to when I -- about the importance of this message -- is that I gave a lecture at the medical school at Kuwait University, where I lecture on the biological basis of behavior, and I gave the students two articles, one from The New York Times and one from New York magazine. 
Any boys and girls caught flirting would get married off immediately, okay. 
The second one took place in upstate New York. 
She was actually coming out of an Amnesty International meeting. 
And the good news is there might be an easy solution to that, and that's using our eyes more. 
And it mushroomed slightly. Afghanistan and Iraq mushroomed now to 3,000 billion. 
So there it is: 227 billion is what Africa owes. 
And the recent financial crisis, how much of this diagram might that figure take up? 
We need to imagine what a landscape of the world's fears might look like. 
This is Mountains Out of Molehills, a timeline of global media panic. 
And there's a very interesting and odd pattern hidden in this data that you can only see when you visualize it. 
Let me show you this. 
I'll take answers. 
I wonder if I could make my life beautiful. 
It's the language of the eye. 
But of course, China has an enormous population. 
And if it can do that, maybe it can also change your behavior. 
But what it points to is that visualizing information like this is a form of knowledge compression. 
So heart is filtered out, so I can see if I'm curious about that. 
So the data is now alive; this is a living image, and I can update it in a second. 
It's even fun to engage with them because it's visual. 
And that is beautiful. Thank you. 
I will show it to you. 
The top note that you smelled at the very beginning, the cut-grass green, what we call in perfumery -- theyre weird terms -- and this would be called a green note, because it smells of something green, like cut grass. 
This is cis-3-hexene-1-ol. And I had to learn chemistry on the fly in the last three years. A very expensive high school chemistry education. 
Now, this is a totally insane idea. 
And my definition of a theory is, its not just something that you teach people; its labor saving. 
If it does, you put the glass down, you go to a different bar. 
Now, I showed this to a physicist friend of mine who has a profound distaste for biology, and he says, Thats easy! The things are a different color! 
Now, Fact B: nothing in the world has that frequency except S-H. 
And in an enormous 40-page paper in German he says, at one point -- my wife is German and she translated it for me -- and at one point he says, ganz widerlich Geruch, an absolutely repulsive smell, which is good. Reminiscent of hydrogen sulfide. 
And its fair to say that if you look up somebodys nose, youre unlikely to see anything resembling this. 
OK. Now. If something absorbs the energy, the electron can travel. 
Whats nice about this idea, if you have a philosophical bent of mind, is that then it tells you that the nose, the ear and the eye are all vibrational senses. 
He says to me, I bet you cannot make a coumarin. 
Now, coumarin is a very common thing, a material, in fragrance which is derived from a bean that comes from South America. 
And: Youre completely wrong, and Im sure youre completely wrong. 
Working with the Harvard Business School, you'll see this example when you talk about minimum payment: If you spent 62 dollars for a meal, the longer you take to pay out that loan, you see, over a period of time using the minimum payment it's 99 dollars and 17 cents. 
But it's going to work. It's more effective than just computational aids. 
Received very favorably by business. 
And there is some good news to report today. 
There is no way we should do business with companies that have agreements with stealth provisions and that are unintelligible. 
Now we come down to it, relatives grieving. 
Never retreat to the 'glorious past.' Keep to the track, to the beaten track; Treat every day of your life as your last. 
Never acknowledge the ghost on the stair. 
Don't do it. 
You bodies are wonderful as they are. 
Youth can never come again; We have drunk the summer wine. 
Dearest, do I love thee less? 
Do I shrink from thy caress? 
Lady lady, do not weep -- What is gone is gone. Now sleep. 
What of the titans of media? 
And what of the Constitution, That bully of last resort? 
At 30 my powers seemed mighty to me. 
Grown sick to our stomachs, and sick of our lives. 
Um, there are -- I've got far too much money and I have far too much fun in my businesses. 
I was in a clinic. I wasn't allowed to make telephone calls. 
That was in October of 2000. 
But sometimes I try to put myself in an evil man's position. 
But sometimes I try to put myself in that position. 
But it's interesting to me. I love to write historical verse. 
I love to think what they thought, what it was like. 
We're still doing it, with all of the genius assembled in this room. 
And you stay up for 12. 
But always we scrabbled to lie with her first. 
We are one species of about five and a half thousand mammalian species that exist on planet Earth today. 
You then hope that the earth moves in such a way as to bring the bones back up to the surface. 
In fact, if you go back in time, it is the norm that there are multiple species of hominids or of human ancestors that coexist at any one time. 
And I imagined him to be tall, dark-skinned. 
We began to find limb bones; we found finger bones, the bones of the pelvis, vertebrae, ribs, the collar bones, things that had never, ever been seen before in Homo erectus. 
But also, surprising finds recently announced from the Island of Flores in Indonesia, where a group of these human ancestors have been isolated, and have become dwarfed, and they're only about a meter in height. 
And what is it that really makes us us? 
I think it's our collective intelligence. 
I had saved a few hundred photos of dodo skeletons into my Creative Projects folder -- it's a repository for my brain, everything that I could possibly be interested in. 
Assuming it was roughly the size of my wife's hand, I made some measurements of her thumb, and I scaled them out to the size of the skull. 
Built out of words, it is the engine that drives the plot of his book and also the movie, in which another object is created: a prop that has to represent the thing that Hammett created out of words, inspired by the Kniphausen Hawk, and this represents the falcon in the movie. 
And so now it was time to do some research. 
What do they do, how do you start something like that? I really don't know. 
And I'm following all the light kicks on this thing and making sure that as I'm holding the light in the same position, I'm getting the same type of reflection on it -- that's the level of detail I'm going into this thing. 
This thing was made of resin and it was too light. 
That's half the weight of my dog, Huxley. 
On the far left is a piece of crap -- a replica I bought on eBay. 
So what do I do? I figure I have two options. 
One, I can fire a freaking laser at it, which I have already done, to do a 3D scan -- there's a 3D scan of this Falcon. 
But really, if we're all going to be honest with ourselves, I have to admit that achieving the end of the exercise was never the point of the exercise to begin with, was it. 
It was actually developed for use by the offshore oil industry for diving on oil rigs down to a depth of 2,000 feet. 
If I go out in the open ocean environment, virtually anywhere in the world, and I drag a net from 3,000 feet to the surface, most of the animals -- in fact, in many places, 80 to 90 percent of the animals that I bring up in that net -- make light. 
So you turn on the camera, turn out the lights. 
I knew my forward speed, I knew the area, and so I could figure out how many hundreds of sources there were per cubic meter. 
So it uses its red bioluminescence like a sniper's scope to be able to sneak up on animals that are blind to red light and be able to see them without being seen. 
And a lot of animals will use their bioluminescence as a lure. 
So, she's got a lure that she sticks out in front of this living mousetrap of needle-sharp teeth in order to attract in some unsuspecting prey. 
So, now we believe that the different shape of the lure is how the male recognizes the female in the anglerfish world, because many of these males are what are known as dwarf males. 
Well, this is a deep-sea version of Women's Lib. 
She always knows where he is, and she doesn't have to be monogamous, because some of these females come up with multiple males attached. 
And we were using a special trawling net that we were able to bring these animals up alive. 
This is an unbelievable light show. 
So, I've wanted for a long time to figure out a different way to explore. 
That's me on the left, my graduate student at the time, Erika Raymond, and Lee Fry, who was the engineer on the project. 
We're at the edge of the Brine Pool, there's a fish that's swimming towards the camera. 
DNA: Design, Nature, Art. These are the three things that condition my world. 
All the guys in the rugby team couldn't understand, but anyway -- this is a meringue. This is another sample I have. 
It shows how you make one holistic form, like the car industry, and then you break up what you need. 
It's like 21st-century Henry Moore. When you see a Henry Moore still, your hair stands up. There's some amazing spiritual connect. 
We need to be in that realm. I want to do stuff like that. 
This is two weeks ago in CCP in Coventry, who build parts for Bentleys and so on. 
This is what goes on in my studio everyday. I walk -- I'm traveling. I come back. 
I said, You get into biopolymers. They looked straight through me. 
I've had this image of a water droplet for 20 years sitting on a hot bed. 
You see that thing. You do. 
I'm not putting Charles Eames' furniture in buildings anymore. 
Who cares? 
This is called a Plasnet. 
These are my sculptures. 
This is a room of sleep-deprived women. 
And in the course of that, I studied, I met with medical doctors, scientists, and I'm here to tell you that the way to a more productive, more inspired, more joyful life is getting enough sleep. 
And our guide was a local science teacher. 
At the end of this day I could have filled a book just with stories about law from this one teacher. 
We lack even a vocabulary to deal with this problem, and that's because we have the wrong frame of reference. 
The trial lawyers say, Well, this legal fear makes doctors practice better medicine. 
The fear has chilled professional interaction so thousands of tragic errors occur because doctors are afraid to speak up: Are you sure that's the right dosage? 
it goes on. We did a study of all the rules that affect one school in New York. The Board of Ed. had no idea. 
I mean it's just absolutely a formula for failure. 
And why not? They don't trust the law. Why don't they trust the law? 
Well how do you fix it? We could spend 10,000 lifetimes trying to prune this legal jungle. 
But law is different than other kinds of uncertainties, because it carries with it the power of state. 
If you make people self-conscious about their judgments, studies show you will make them make worse judgments. 
Edison stated it best. He said, Hell, we ain't got no rules around here, we're trying to accomplish something. 
All these choices involve value judgments and social norms, not objective facts. 
You can't run a society by the lowest common denominator. 
So, what's needed is a basic shift in philosophy. 
Law is a human institution; responsibility is a human institution. 
If the judge doesn't have the authority to toss out unreasonable claims, then all of us go through the day looking over our shoulders. 
What the world needs now is to restore the authority to make common choices. 
The second thing I want to do is introduce my co-author and dear friend and co-teacher. 
We certainly can't trust the bankers, and we certainly can't trust the brokers. 
And even as we do our own work, all too often, we find ourselves having to choose between doing what we think is the right thing and doing the expected thing, or the required thing, or the profitable thing. 
Or if they do have our interests at heart, we worry that they don't know us well enough to figure out what they need to do in order to allow us to secure those interests. 
In addition, we are struggling to find some way to create incentives for people in the financial services industry that will have them more interested in serving the long-term interests even of their own companies, rather than securing short-term profits. 
If there is a lesson to be learned from the financial collapse it is that. 
A wise person knows when to bend the rules. 
A wise person knows when to improvise. 
And most important, a wise person does this improvising and rule-bending in the service of the right aims. 
He was supporting his wife and a child, and the child was going to parochial school. 
Then he lost his job. 
The judge on the case, Judge Lois Forer thought that this made no sense. 
He did. He served out his sentence. 
For Ms. Dewey, this isn't why she became a teacher. 
In the Veterans' Court -- this was the first of its kind in the United States. 
Why has the idea spread? 
Anyone would glom onto a criminal justice system that has this kind of a record. 
So here's is a system-changer, and it seems to be catching. 
Aristotle thought that practical wisdom was the key to happiness, and he was right. 
Indeed, we argue, there is no substitute for wisdom. 
First of all, we started off the nuclear age in 1945. 
We had a few nuclear weapons, two of which we dropped on Japan, in Hiroshima, a few days later in Nagasaki, in August 1945, killing about 250,000 people between those two. 
So the goal was to evacuate the target cities. 
We would move people out of the target cities into the countryside. 
This disconnect was never actually resolved. 
So, what is a nuclear terror threat? 
There are plans for how to create a terror farm where you could actually manufacture and develop all the components and assemble it. 
Since there is no real retribution possible that would make any difference, since there are people willing to actually give up their lives in order to do a lot of damage to us, it becomes apparent that the whole notion of this mutually assured destruction would not work. 
You take it wherever you want to take it, and you can detonate it. 
You can't get an exact number for that kind of probability, but what I'm trying to say is that we have all the elements of that happening. 
I don't think we would see an all-out nuclear war any time soon, although even that is not completely off the table. 
There's still enough nuclear weapons in the arsenals of the superpowers to destroy the Earth many, many times over. 
We're coming down, and we bring that truck that you just saw somewhere in here, in the Financial District. 
This is a 10-kiloton bomb, slightly smaller than was used in Hiroshima. And I want to just conclude this by just giving you some information. I think -- news you could use kind of concept here. 
And if you're in this vicinity, you've got to get away. 
And if you're wearing clothing, you've taken off your clothing, you're going to get showered down some place and remove the radiation that would be -- the radioactive material that might be on you. 
Thank you. 
No, no, I wasn't 14 years old. 
I wasn't really a rocket scientist, but I was working at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in sunny California where it's warm; whereas now I'm in the mid-West, and it's cold. 
And he told me, Biosignatures, we need to look for a biosignature. 
And he said, It's any measurable phenomenon that allows us to indicate the presence of life. 
But immediately the system goes like, What kind of dumb piece of code was this? 
So you see waves of new types taking over the other types. 
As long as I know that there's some sort of alphabet. 
And obviously each of these letters comes off about roughly equally frequent. 
And if I look at French texts, it looks a little bit different, or Italian or German. 
It doesn't matter whether it's a poem or whether it's a mathematical text. 
The Avidians being the denizens of this computer world where they are perfectly happy replicating and growing in complexity. 
Too hot, too hot. 
And I'm just showing this to you again because it's so nice. 
One of them is, if we are able to think about life in abstract terms -- and we're not talking about things like plants, and we're not talking about amino acids, and we're not talking about bacteria, but we think in terms of processes -- then we could start to think about life, not as something that is so special to Earth, but that, in fact, could exist anywhere. 
But what really turns me on about technology is not just the ability to get more songs on MP3 players. 
What I would like to see is idealism decoupled from all constraints. 
Political, economic, psychological, whatever. 
Don't ask. 
Well, I turned him down. 
That's not a cause. That's an emergency. 
And what we're facing in Africa is an unprecedented threat to human dignity and equality. 
That's right. 
We like to give, and we give a lot. 
You see, Africa makes a fool of our idea of justice. 
Africa is a continent in flames. 
Anyway, I believe that that kind of thinking offends the intellectual rigor in this room. 
There's an opportunity here, and it's real. 
Our credibility? 
I can't; you can't, as individuals; but we can change the world. 
But working together, we can actually change the world. 
Ideas that you gestated in your youth. 
Well, now, actually because of you, it is possible to change the physical world. 
So why, then, are we not pumping our fists into the air? 
But for the first time in history, we have the technology; we have the know-how; we have the cash; we have the life-saving drugs. 
The Clash wore big army boots, not sandals. 
But some of them they haven't. 
Not only in lives saved, but in goodwill, stability and security that we'll gain. 
What I hope is that beyond individual merciful acts, that you will tell the politicians to do right by Africa, by America and by the world. 
Give us that kind of dreaming, that kind of doing. 
The war against terror, yes. 
Actually we're talking to ABC today about the Oscars. 
We need to get the math; we need to get the statistics out to the American people. 
: One by one they step forward, a nurse, a teacher, a homemaker, and lives are saved. 
We can make history. 
We can start to make poverty history. 
The idea that the Internet, which changed all of our lives, can transform a country -- and a continent that has hardly made it to analog, let alone digital -- blows my mind. 
Communication is very important for Ethiopia -- will transform the country. 
I am, of course, referring to none other than Elvis Presley. 
And love is not love, but being all shook up. 
Does that correspond? 
Metaphor creates a kind of conceptual synesthesia, in which we understand one concept in the context of another. 
One of the sentences was, Some jobs are jails. 
And they had those expectations because agent metaphors imply the deliberate action of a living thing pursuing a goal. 
But there is a better translation. 
The Latin word cogito is derived from the prefix co, meaning together, and the verb agitare, meaning to shake. 
And in that sense, ballooning is a beautiful metaphor. 
We want to go in a direction, but the winds push us in another direction, like in life. 
And as long as we fight horizontally, against life, against the winds, against what's happening to us, life is a nightmare. 
How do we go from the metaphor to something more practical that we can really use every day? 
It's not true. 
This is very practical. 
This is why you need people with long-term vision. 
But we were expected to have doubts; we're expected to have fears. 
It's to show you how much gas was left in the last bottles. 
We landed with 40 kilos. 
I had no idea how it was possible. 
And when the capsule of my balloon was introduced officially in the Air and Space Museum in Washington, together with the airplane of Charles Lindbergh, with Apollo 11, with the Wright Brothers' Flyer, with Chuck Yeager's 61, I had really a thought then. 
It will be prohibited because we'll have to save our natural resources in a few decades from now. 
Which means that they have more proven the limits of renewable energies than the potential of it. 
The goal is to take off, end of this year for the first test, but mainly next year, spring or summer, take off, on our own power, without additional help, without being towed, climb to 9,000 meters altitude. 
So, you see that this airplane is more a symbol. 
I don't think it will transport 200 people in the next years. 
And 20 years later there were 200 people in every airplane crossing the Atlantic. 
And each time we have some ice in the future, we have to know that life will be great, and the success will be brilliant if we dare to overcome our fear of the ice, to go through the obstacle, to go through the problem, in order to see what there is on the other side. 
I wish I could show you my Yemen. 
It was very hard, you know, to impose my authority. 
But a woman's got to do what a woman's got to do. 
It's about proving who you are and what you can do. 
But in assuming this responsibility and going about it as you have, you have become a bridge between an older and traditional society and the one that you are now creating at the paper. 
And this is true. 
Well the Yemen Times, across 20 years, has been through so much. 
They think that if there's anything against them, then we are being an opposition newspaper. 
And very, very difficult times. 
And he ended up writing about a story that even surprised me -- hip hop -- that there are young Yemeni men who express themselves through dancing and puchu puchu. 
That thing.  
I'm not so old. 
Actually, that's a documentary that's available online; the video's online. 
And certainly you yourself and what you do have given us a view of the future that we will embrace and be grateful for. 
On Twitter also. 
And it doesn't take much time to discover some really astonishing statistics with this issue. 
It's the number one contaminant of groundwater, drinking water, rain water. 
In some cases, another species like the North American Leopard Frog showed that males exposed to atrazine grew eggs in their testes. 
Normally the testes should make testosterone, the male hormone. 
In fact, this aromatase is so important in breast cancer that the latest treatment for breast cancer is a chemical called letrozole, which blocks aromatase, blocks estrogen, so that if you developed a mutated cell, it doesn't grow into a tumor. 
PJC: So speaking of estrogen, one of the other compounds that Tyrone talks about in the film is something called bisphenol A, BPA, which has been in the news recently. 
So we're dosing our babies, our newborns, our infants, with a synthetic estrogen. 
So the pup you see on the bottom is affected by atrazine that its grandmother was exposed to. 
And given the life of many of these chemicals, generations, years, dozens of years, that means that we right now are affecting the health of our grandchildren's grandchildren by things that we're putting into the environment today. 
And this was something that was really brought home to me a year ago when I found out I was pregnant and the first scan revealed that my baby had a birth defect associated with exposure to estrogenic chemicals in the womb and the second scan revealed no heartbeat. 
We know so much about global warming and climate change, and yet, we have no concept of what I've been calling internal environmentalism. 
I'm not married, but one year ago today, I woke up from a month-long coma, following a double lung transplant. 
Crazy, I know. Insane. 
But I was not limited when I sang, and as air came up from my lungs, through my vocal cords and passed my lips as sound, it was the closest thing I had ever come to transcendence. 
My father and my grandfather were always looking for the newest thing in alternative or traditional therapies for PH, but after six months, I couldn't walk up a small hill. I couldn't climb a flight of stairs. 
Mine was 146. 
Doctors insert a catheter into your chest, which is attached to a pump that weighs about four-and-a-half pounds. 
Literally hundreds of elevator rides were spent with me alone stuffing the pump into my Spanx, hoping the doors wouldn't open unexpectedly. 
Against my doctors' and family's wishes, I needed to go back for the funeral. 
I was dying, and if I didn't mix that stuff up fast, I would never leave that apartment alive. 
I went back to the States, anticipating I'd return to Europe, but the heart catheterization showed that I wasn't going anywhere further that a flight-for-life from Johns Hopkins Hospital. 
A happy patient is a healthy patient. 
And it was right-heart failure. 
It was a match. 
Because, despite their problems, I had spent my whole life training my lungs, and I was not particularly enthusiastic about giving them up. 
They left my chest open for two weeks. 
An infection ravaged my skin. 
If they stayed in, there was no way I would ever sing again. 
There were a dozen tubes coming in and out of my body. 
I couldn't walk, I couldn't talk, I couldn't eat, I couldn't move, I certainly couldn't sing, I couldn't even breathe, but when I looked up and I saw my mother, I couldn't help but smile. 
Whether by a Mack truck or by heart failure or faulty lungs, death happens. 
But life isn't really just about avoiding death, is it? 
Life Magazine helped in this effort by announcing the introduction of throwaways that would liberate the housewife from the drudgery of doing dishes. 
A teacher told me how to express the under-five-percent of plastics recovered in our waste stream. 
In spite of deposit fees, much of this trash leading out to the sea will be plastic beverage bottles. 
Isla San Roque is an uninhabited bird rookery off Baja's sparsely populated central coast. 
Notice that the bottles here have caps on them. 
A four-month old Laysan Albatross chick died with this in its stomach. 
That day I ended up spending nearly 60. 
And this particular beach is Kailua Beach, the beach where our president and his family vacationed before moving to Washington. 
We wanted to see if the most common fish in the deep ocean, at the base of the food chain, was ingesting these poison pills. 
But no fishmonger on Earth can sell you a certified organic wild-caught fish. 
The range of the species goes up to as much as 380 feet tall. 
I became very interested, and I wrote about a couple. 
His friend, a guy named Marwood Harris, was following behind. 
But they made it to the top, and what they found was not a Redwood desert, but a lost world -- a kind of three-dimensional labyrinth in the air, filled with unknown life. 
Children are incredibly adept at climbing trees. 
That's my son, Oliver. 
If ontogeny recapitulates phylogeny, then children are somewhat closer to our roots as primates in the arboreal forest. 
You ascend 30 stories. 
And there's also something that I want to show you. 
The scientists are doing all kinds of experiments in these trees. 
We're looking at the very top of Gaya, which is thought to be the oldest Redwood. 
What can the Redwoods tell us about ourselves? 
The flickering, transitory quality of human time and the brevity of human life -- the necessity to love. 
And I think that one of the happiest things is the sense that with my children I've been able to introduce them into the very small circle of humans who are lucky enough, or possibly stupid enough, to still climb trees. 
But that's just a very small facet of a much greater problem of invasions of species worldwide, all through the ecosystems, and you know, the Earth itself -- CA: Partly caused by us, inadvertently. 
Thank you. 
We know because it says so inside the code. 
And Basit and Amjad are first names, Pakistani first names. 
So half a year ago, I decided to go to Pakistan myself. 
And I knocked on the door. 
You want to guess who opened the door? 
So let me just run some viruses on my computer. 
Let me show you one which actually makes some sound. 
We find guys like Bjorn Sundin, originally from Sweden, and his partner in crime, also listed on the INTERPOL wanted pages, Mr. Shaileshkumar Jain, a U.S. citizen. 
Now, criminals who weren't capable of reaching us before can reach us. 
But even more interestingly, if we continue decrypting, we'll find this mysterious string, which says O600KO78RUS. 
It's not used for anything. 
I got zero hits; wasn't there. 
So I spoke with the guys at the lab. 
And on this blog, he blogs about his life, about his life in St. Petersburg -- he's in his early 20s -- about his cat, about his girlfriend. 
In fact, this guy drives a Mercedes-Benz S600 V12 with a six-liter engine with more than 400 horsepower. 
The vast majority of the online crime cases, we don't even know which continent the attacks are coming from. 
PLC's, these small boxes which have no display, no keyboard, which are programmed, are put in place, and they do their job. 
You go to any factory, any power plant, any chemical plant, any food processing plant, you look around -- everything is being run by computers. 
I'm worried that we are running into problems because of online crime. 
I'm not engaged in predicting random number generators. 
I don't have a clue. 
Mother Theresa, she was rational. 
So, we have to work out who influences problems. 
There are lots of people shaping decisions and so if we want to predict correctly we have to pay attention to everybody who is trying to shape the outcome, not just the people at the pinnacle of the decision-making pyramid. 
So with just that little bit of input we can work out what the choices are that people have, what the chances are that they're willing to take, what they're after, what they value, what they want, and what they believe about other people. 
I remind you of that 90 percent accuracy rate. 
What's its future? 
Over here you can see this is the distribution of power in favor of civilian nuclear energy today, this is what that power block is predicted to be like by the late parts of 2010, early parts of 2011. 
That power disappears completely; nobody supports that by 2011. 
Here is Mr. Ahmadinejad. 
He is on the way down. 
Everything is not predictable: the stock market is, at least for me, not predictable, but most complicated negotiations are predictable. 
And if you engineer what they do you can change the world, you can get a better result. 
So, I've had an obsession basically for 30 years, and that obsession has been, What makes the difference in the quality of peoples lives? 
Whether it be your business, your contribution to society, money -- whatever it is for you -- your body, your family. 
But the other lesson of life that is rarely mastered is the art of fulfillment. 
Because science is easy, right? 
And everybody in this room -- you wouldn't be in this room if you bought that theory -- but the -- most of society thinks biography is destiny. 
Audience: Aye. 
Al Gore: Supreme Court.  
If you don't have the money, but you're creative and determined enough, you find the way. So this is the ultimate resource. 
In this second, consciously or unconsciously, the minute you decide to focus on something you've got to give it a meaning, and whatever that meaning is produces emotion. 
Honestly, better or worse? Say, Aye. 
How would their lives be different? Their impact? 
Audience: Aye. 
Let me tell you what they are. First one: certainty. 
So that's why violence has always been around and will be around unless we have a consciousness change as a species. 
I said, Focus on: 'there's food' -- what a concept, you know. 
Second -- but this is what changed my life, this is what shaped me as a human being -- Somebody's gift. 
10 seconds, that's all. I want to be respectful. 10 seconds. 
If you saw these women on the street in their faded clothes, you might dismiss them as poor and simple. 
We will not be there. 
Mau is a palu, a navigator priest. 
Their tradition is so extraordinary that these mariners sailed three million square miles across the Pacific without the use of instruments. 
The palu also had an uncanny ability to forecast weather conditions days in advance. 
Their achievements, intellectually and scientifically, are extraordinary, and they are so relevant for these times that we are in when we are riding out storms. 
We cannot afford to lose it. 
The link between the past and the future is fragile. 
I am haunted by the fact that I no longer remember the names of the winds and the rains. 
And I am reminded that throughout the world there are cultures with vast sums of knowledge in them, as potent as the Micronesian navigators, that are going dismissed, that this is a testament to brilliant, brilliant technology and science and wisdom that is vanishing rapidly. 
YouTube cares deeply about the rights of content owners, but in order to give them choices about what they can do with copies, mashups and more, we need to first identify when copyrighted material is uploaded to our site. 
Because Sony Music had registered Chris Brown's video in our Content ID system, within seconds of attempting to upload the video, the copy was detected, giving Sony the choice of what to do next. 
The video's inspired over 26,000 dollars in donations to end domestic violence. 
So why has no one ever solved this problem before? 
But it's not just about dollars and impressions. 
 Billie crept softly   into my waking arms   warm like a sip of sour mash   Strange fruit for   a sweet hunk of trash   Panic at the stage door   of Carnegie Hall   Famous Jazz Singer Gone AWOL   Must have left the building   body and soul   On a creaky   piano stool tonight   as the moon is my   only witness   She was breathing   in my ear   This time it's love   But love is a loaded pistol   By daybreak she's gone   Over the frozen river, home   Me and Johnny Walker   See in the new age   alone   Stay with me   again tonight   Billie, time,   time is a wily trickster   Still an echo   in my heart says,   This time it's love   So I really consider myself a storyteller. 
Since the dawn of human history, we've tried to rectify this imbalance by making art, writing poems, singing songs, scripting editorials and sending them in to a newspaper, gossiping with friends. This is nothing new. 
It's been running for about a year and a half. 
And I'll show you a glimpse of how this information is then visualized. So this is We Feel Fine. 
The dots exhibit human qualities. They kind of have their own physics, and they swarm wildly around, kind of exploring the world of life. 
And then they also exhibit curiosity. 
There's also Murmurs, Montage, Mobs, Metrics and Mounds. 
And then, one by one, in reverse chronological order, they excuse themselves, entering the scrolling list of feelings. 
I feel invisible to you. 
I feel in love with Carolyn. I feel so naughty. 
This is in response to, What's beautiful? Miss World. 
And it caused me to wonder about our world today. 
And those are the questions that inspired my new project, which is debuting here today at TED. 
It's called Universe: Revealing Our Modern Mythology. 
This is the universe of 2007, the last two months. 
But we can actually be more specific in defining our universe. 
So we see Obama and the Clintons meet in Alabama. 
You can see that this is an important story; there are a lot of things in its orbit. If we open this up, we get different perspectives on this story. 
And you'll all be able to use it and kind of explore what your own personal mythology might be. 
As you search for the things that are important to you in your world, and then see what the constellations of those might look like. 
We're facing this problem. 
There is the problem. 
And you know, going back maybe 10 years in time when I got the funding to buy my first graphics computer -- it was a huge machine. 
It was cabinets of processors and storage and everything. 
This is a data set that was captured using a CT scanner. 
And of course all the data is inside, so I can start rotating, I can look at it from different angles, and I can see that this woman had a problem. 
And one of the applications that we've been working on -- and this has gotten a little bit of traction worldwide -- is the application of virtual autopsies. 
So this is from a virtual autopsy. 
The person was killed by stabs in the heart, but they just deposited the knife by putting it through one of the eyeballs. 
Here's another case that I think is interesting. 
During a physical autopsy, if you actually have to dig through the body to find these fragments, that's actually quite hard to do. 
So if you have the opportunity, please try it out. 
It's really a hands-on experience. 
And this is a bit of science fiction now, so we're moving into really the future. 
And he's also hearing our instructions when we tell him to do things. 
And in just a second here you will see -- okay, here. Motts, now move your left foot. 
I can look inside of it. 
And here it is. Here is the nose of the bear. 
Well, 80 percent of the men in Lesotho worked in the mines over the border, in brutal conditions. 
He was the son of one of the poorest families in the village. 
Perhaps the universe existed before the bang, and the bang was just a violent event in a pre-existing universe. 
I won't go into the details of why we think the universe is like this, but it comes out of the math and trying to explain the physics that we know. 
And there've been bangs in the past, and there will be bangs in the future. 
What about Africa? 
It's still going on. 
What about Africa's capacity to do something about these problems? 
Well, here's the number of physicians in Africa. 
And while I was busy working -- I was working on these colliding worlds, in the day. 
And we got lots of applicants. 
You have to rethink, what is the university for? 
No droning on at the chalkboard. 
Everyone lives together in this hotel -- lecturers and students -- and it's not surprising at all to find an impromptu tutorial at 1 a.m. 
We especially emphasize areas of great relevance to Africa's development, because, in those areas, scientists working in Africa will have a competitive advantage. 
They'll publish, be invited to conferences. 
And AIMS has done extremely well. 
Five students can be educated at AIMS for the cost of educating one in the U.S. or Europe. 
She communicates well with the immunologists at the hospital. 
Here are the current students at AIMS. There are 53 of them from 20 different countries, including 20 women. 
So now I'm going to get to my TED business. 
I want to point out a few other exceptional people in this picture. 
And she's now at AIMS.  
And our wish has two parts: one is a dream and the other's a plan. OK. 
Our TED dream is that the next Einstein will be African.  
We want to add entrepreneurship and policy skills. 
Over the last year, we've been visiting sites in Africa, looking at potential sites for new AIMS centers. 
So we have political support right across the continent. 
But nobody was really worried about this. 
This is a quote, actually, from Alan Turing: In 30 years, it will be as easy to ask a computer a question as to ask a person. 
This was in 1946. And now, in 2007, it's still not true. 
That's how much power this computer uses. 
Rory is a graduate student at Stanford. 
I estimate 10 to the 16 bits per second, which is actually about very similar to what Blue Gene does. 
And let me just summarize. So the bottom line: the brain processes information using 100,000 times less energy than we do right now with this computer technology that we have. 
So, this clip is from the PBS series, The Secret Life of the Brain. 
And that's basically what's going on in your brain right now as you're watching this. 
The devices that computers use are what's called a transistor. 
Your computer uses this presence of current to represent a one, and the absence of current to represent a zero. 
But, when it's open, because these ions have to line up and flow through, one at a time, you get a kind of sporadic, not steady -- it's a sporadic flow of current. 
In fact, there's about 12 electrons can all be flowing this way. 
What you see here is that there's these redundant connections. 
This is Kareem's dark eyes and that's the white background that you see here. 
So we are really duplicating the kind of signals that you have on the optic nerve. 
Let me just end by saying that this is what happens when you put Africa in a piano, OK. 
And I had this gut reaction that this was the wrong way to do it. 
I'm interested in finding whether or not there is a really massive, what we like to call supermassive black hole at the center of our galaxy. 
But today, the way I want you to understand a black hole, for the proof of a black hole, is to think of it as an object whose mass is confined to zero volume. 
So why is it so important? 
Now, the key here is to figure out what that Schwarzschild radius is. 
It depends only on the mass of the object. 
There are big ones. There are little ones. 
And there are a hundred billion stars in that galaxy, just to give you a sense of scale. 
So, at the center there, that's actually where most of the starlight comes out from. 
So, you can't see the black hole itself, but you can convert the gravitational energy of the black hole into the light we see. 
And if there is a supermassive black hole, what we need to assume is that it's a black hole on a diet. 
And we live in the middle of it, so when we look towards the center, we see this plane which defines the plane of the galaxy, or line that defines the plane of the galaxy. 
It's the gravitational pull that makes these things orbit. 
So, this is great, because remember my job is to show there is a lot of mass inside a small volume. 
So, I want to see the stars that are as close to the center of the galaxy as possible. 
Because I want to show there is a mass inside as small a region as possible. 
And that buys us about a factor of 20. 
So, without this technology you can't see the stars. 
And this one, this one goes around in a human lifetime. 
And the truth is, I'm not quite there. 
But we actually have no alternative today to explaining this concentration of mass. 
Likewise, for the young stars, or in contrast, the young stars, they just should not be there. 
Using observations that are not the ones I've shown you today, we can actually figure out which ones are old and which ones are young. 
The old ones are red. 
He didn't read a note, and he was profoundly hearing impaired. 
And the thing about classical music, that what and how, it's inexhaustible. 
And a tough, slouchy kid got up to bat, and he took a swing and really connected. 
Brah dada dadadadah. 
And whether we call them 440 per second, A, or 3,729, B flat -- trust me, that's right -- they're just phenomena. 
And in the 17th century, it was more like this. 
And there began to be a real difference at this point between the art of improvisation and the art of composition. 
So in the first eight centuries or so of this tradition the big 'what' was to praise God. 
The 'how' was a style called polyphony, music of many independently moving voices that suggested the way the planets seemed to move in Ptolemy's geocentric universe. 
Ah, avaricious heaven! 
And the chords, it turned out, were capable of representing incredible varieties of emotions. 
It's just these two notes in the middle. 
And it turned out the symphony could be used for more complex issues, like gripping ones of culture, such as nationalism or quest for freedom or the frontiers of sensuality. 
What happens when the music stops? 
Where does it go? What's left? 
It's the passing on part. It's the 'why' part of it. 
At the same time technology, by taking over the role that notation had always played, shifted the balance within music between instinct and intelligence way over to the instinctive side. 
What's the long-term effect of this on us or on music? 
Nobody knows. 
There's just a role here for so many people -- teachers, parents, performers -- to be explorers together. 
You can start anywhere. Ramble a bit. 
Then these two fellows came along, and they were flying kites to develop the control systems that would ultimately enable powered human flight. 
But unfortunately, it relegated kites once again to be considered children's toys. 
And it doesn't hurt to do it in a location like this either. 
If you'd loan me your Gulfstream, I'll rip its wings off and generate you a megawatt. 
The story starts with just a single person, a child, behaving a little strangely. 
They're creating the ecosystem from which innovation emerges. 
It's based on hundreds of hours of research, of practice. 
Now, here's an example -- pre-Internet -- of this machine in action. 
I mean, you might just be a kid with a webcam, but if you can do something that goes viral, you get to be seen by the equivalent of sports stadiums crammed with people. 
And even if it's not that eloquent -- and it's not -- it can still really make your day. 
In fact, my colleague, June Cohen, has taken to calling it radical openness, because it works for us each time. 
By giving away our TEDx brand, we suddenly have a thousand-plus live experiments in the art of spreading ideas. 
We're a social species. 
And that's why what I'm excited about, and what I think is under-reported, is the significance of the rise of online video. 
He's a unicyclist. 
Jove is a website that was founded to encourage scientists to publish their peer-reviewed research on video. 
Why do people like watching TEDTalks? 
500 years ago, it ran into a competitor with a lethal advantage. 
I mean, today, one person speaking can be seen by millions, shedding bright light on potent ideas, creating intense desire for learning and to respond -- and in his case, intense desire to laugh. 
Thousands of people are figuring out new ways to learn and, crucially, to respond, completing the cycle. 
And so, as we've thought about this, you know, it's become clear to us what the next stage of TED's evolution has to be. 
They used the same trash to form green manure. 
Thank you. 
The name Abegg -- Abegg is actually A-B-E-G-G, and that's the main theme in the melody. 
What I do first is, I make a lot of little musical ideas -- you can just improvise here at the piano -- and I choose one of those to become my main theme, my main melody, like the Abegg that you just heard. 
So, for inspiration I listened to Liszt and Tchaikovsky and all the great Romantic composers. 
And once I realized it, there's a parallel between creating music and creating art, because for your motive or your little initial idea for your drawing, it's your character -- you want to decide who do you want to draw, or if you want to draw an original character. 
Like, am I going to use one page? 
Am I going to use a two-page spread like a comic book for more grandiose effect, I guess? 
Instead, I'd like to try something called improvisation. 
And that's a huge amount of data. 
And the more technical topics, such as architecture, materials and, strangely enough, men, those are not good topics to talk about. 
Ingenious TEDTalks, much more this green color, etc., et. 
Now, since this is TEDActive, and I learned from my analysis that I should actually give you something, I will not impose the ultimate or worst TEDTalk on you, but rather give you a tool to create your own. 
And I call this tool the TEDPad. 
Thank you very much. 
Now, if you combine this very simple, very conservative thought -- go with the grain of human nature -- with all the advances in behavioral economics, some of which we were just hearing about, again, I think we can achieve a real increase in well-being, in happiness, in a stronger society without necessarily having to spend a whole lot more money. 
Well I can't, in the time I've got, give huge numbers of examples, but let me just give a few of the ways that life can change. 
And this is so obvious, in a way, because you think about how all of you have changed the way we shop, the way we travel, the way that business is done. 
We want to get people to be more energy efficient. 
Obviously, here we have JFK with that incredibly simple and powerful formulation, Ask not what your country can do for you; ask what you can do for your country, an incredibly noble sentiment. 
But when he made that speech, what could you do to build the stronger, better society? 
And I think an even more wonderful speech, which I'm going to read a big chunk of, which sums up what I said at the beginning about believing there is more to life than money, and more that we should try and measure than money. 
Some say up to five tons. 
They're fantastic creatures. 
So they were incredibly important animals. 
The importance of basking sharks to the coast communities is recognized through the language. 
And most of what we do know is based on their habit of coming to the surface. 
And we try to guess what they're doing from their behavior on the surface. 
And we tagged them very simply, not very hi-tech, with a big, long pole. 
And of course, sharks, fish, are underwater most of the time. 
And here's a couple of maps that we've done. 
That one, you can see that we tagged both off Kerry. 
So he did another study using microsatellites, which are much more expensive, much more time consuming, and, to his surprise, came up with almost identical results. 
And it's thought maybe it was a bottleneck, a genetic bottleneck thought to be 12,000 years ago, and this has caused a very low diversity. 
But the average of all these studies came out -- the mean is about 5,000, which I personally don't believe, but then I am a skeptic. 
In fact, of those 20,000, 8,000 were thought to be females. 
They didn't get enough samples to really explore the genetics in enough detail. 
And some are caught in nets, in trawls. 
And in about half an hour, we got five samples, five individual sharks, were sampled using Simon's shark slime sampling system. 
And I was thinking of humpback whales breaching and dolphins. 
And what you're trying to look at is the males have claspers, which kind of dangle out behind the back of the shark. 
And you just want to learn as much as you can as soon as you can. 
Philosophers, dramatists, theologians have grappled with this question for centuries: what makes people go wrong? 
So when I read Robert Louis Stevenson, that wasn't fiction. 
And apparently, he disobeyed God, and that's the ultimate disobedience to authority. 
I became an expert witness for one of the guards, Sergeant Chip Frederick, and in that position, I had access to the dozen investigative reports. 
I had access to him. I could study him, have him come to my home, get to know him, do psychological analysis to see, was he a good apple or bad apple. 
Why? Tier 1-A was the center for military intelligence. 
That's one of the visual illustrations of evil. 
Who are the bad apples? Well, that's a bad question. 
And so we're interested in, what are the external factors around the individual -- the bad barrel? 
And social scientists stop there, and they miss the big point that I discovered when I became an expert witness for Abu Ghraib. 
This is Stanley Milgram, little Jewish kid from the Bronx, and he asked the question, Could the Holocaust happen here, now? 
He gets tied up to the shock apparatus in another room. 
And so, he's the modern Lucifer effect, a man of God who becomes the Angel of Death. 
It was a real cop car, it was a real policeman, and there were real neighbors in the street, who didn't know that this was an experiment. 
Do they kill, torture, mutilate? 13. 
If you give people power without oversight, it's a prescription for abuse. They knew that, and let that happen. 
The answer is nobody, and, I think, nobody on purpose. 
Banality of heroism is, it's ordinary people who do heroic deeds. 
He was a low-level private, and that stopped it. Was he a hero? No. 
She came down, saw that madhouse and said, You know what, it's terrible what you're doing to those boys. 
So the psychology of heroism is -- we're going to end in a moment -- how do we encourage children in new hero courses, that I'm working with Matt Langdon -- he has a hero workshop -- to develop this heroic imagination, this self-labeling, I am a hero in waiting, and teach them skills. 
Wesley and the guy -- 20 and a half inches height. 
A half an inch would have taken his head off. 
Take path one, you're going to be a perpetrator of evil. 
Path two, you become guilty of the evil of passive inaction. 
We should, in fact, because without having this possibility of conscious minds, we would have no knowledge whatsoever about our humanity; we would have no knowledge whatsoever about the world. 
So much for the wonder, now for the mystery. 
And in that image there, you see a variety of islands of what I call image-making regions in the brain. 
You have the green for example, that corresponds to tactile information, or the blue that corresponds to auditory information. 
But what about the self? 
And for a long time, people did not even want to touch it, because they'd say, How can you have this reference point, this stability, that is required to maintain the continuity of selves day after day? 
I like to call it an almost infinite sameness from day to day. 
There is the brain stem in between the cerebral cortex and the spinal cord. 
It developed in collectives of human beings. 
Why care if it is the brain stem or the cerebral cortex and how this is made? 
And if we are interested, for example, in the fact that anti-gravity is pulling galaxies away from the Earth, why should we not be interested in what is going on inside of human beings? 
When I was just a little girl, my mom started what is now the longest-running women's film festival in the world. 
Fishnet stockings. 
I thought they were really hot. 
There are lots of very modern political movements that have caught fire in no small part because of cultural hipness. 
And one of our biggest successes is we get mail from teenage girls in the middle of Iowa who say, I Googled Jessica Simpson and stumbled on your site. 
We don't want one face. 
Thank you. 
It's enough to make you feel very overwhelmed. 
Which brings me to my third paradox. 
You may have guessed by now, I did not light myself on fire. 
Cornel West says, Of course it's a failure. 
She was talking about board meetings, she was founding peace organizations, she was coordinating carpools, she was consoling friends -- all these daily acts of care and creativity. 
And surely, at three and four years old, I was listening to the soothing sound of her voice, but I think I was also getting my first lesson in activist work. 
Know thyself. 
And we feel like we have to get far, far away to a secluded retreat, leaving it all behind. 
This is the term that armies use when they've lost a battle. 
You may or may not have noticed that I'm wearing a tiny electrode on my forehead. 
Let me show you what it looks like. 
Or what if I can take that information and put it into an organic shape up on the screen? 
I may also be interested in knowing how focused I am, so I can put my level of attention into the circuit board on the other side. 
And that was responsiveness. 
We then realized that if technology could know something about you and use it to help you, there's an even more valuable application than that. 
In the original Zen Bound game, you play it by scrolling your fingers over the pad. 
You have graphs and charts that tell you how your brain was doing -- not just how much rope you used or what your high score is, but what was going on inside of your mind. 
The way these children will be able to use their new awareness to improve themselves will upend many of the damaging and widespread social stigmas that people who are diagnosed as different are challenged with. 
Thank you. 
So I used to get my eyes tested just for fun. 
So let me just tell you, the great part of all of this? 
And so when I heard that eye specialist tell me all the things, a big fat no, everybody imagines I was devastated. 
The first thing I thought about was my mom, who was crying over beside me. 
And that wind in my face made me believe that he was mad and I would drive. 
Oh, for the love of God. 
I just was so -- how do I tell him? 
And then he said to me, What did you want to be when you were little? 
I know this run so well, by the back of my hand. 
I count the steps and the lampposts and all those things that visually impaired people have a tendency to have a lot of meetings with. 
And you know, the extraordinary part of it is I just simply had no answers. 
And nobody can tell me no. 
Yes, you can say I can't be an archeologist. 
I'm going to go across India on the back of an elephant. 
And I never thought about noes anymore, or not seeing, or any of that kind of nothing. 
And consequently, we can see the result all around us. 
I hope it's not the curb cut between the Chuck E. Cheese and the Target store because that's not good enough for Americans to be spilling their blood for.  
This is the other side of the building. 
And what is the message that is coming, what are the vocabularies and grammars that are coming, from this building and how is it informing us about who we are? 
You know, this is a building designed like a DVD player.  
Anyway, this is how you compose and assemble a downtown business building, and this is what happened when in Glens Falls, New York, when we tried to do it again, where it was missing, right? 
And that starts to be delivered in the form of the railroad suburb: the country villa along the railroad line, which allows people to enjoy the amenity of the city, but to return to the countryside every night. 
And that's the great non-articulated agony of suburbia and one of the reasons that it lends itself to ridicule. 
I don't have any eyes on the side of my head. I can't see. 
So they take the first one that comes along, often. 
We're going to have to do something else instead. 
So that, you know, the residences make sense deployed in relation to the places of business, of culture and of governance. 
The dead malls: what are we going to do with them? 
No amount or combination of alternative fuels is going to allow us to continue running what we're running, the way we're running it. 
We're going to have to do everything very differently. 
And America's not prepared. 
And within that context, we can offer the kids time -- something that seems in short supply in their over-scheduled lives. 
All materials are available for use. 
It's a great honor today to share with you The Digital Universe, which was created for humanity to really see where we are in the universe. 
NASA supported this work 12 years ago as part of the rebuilding of the Hayden Planetarium so that we would share this with the world. 
I captured this live from my laptop in a cafe called Earth Matters on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, where I live, and it was done as a collaborative project with the Rubin Museum of Himalayan Art for an exhibit on comparative cosmology. 
But this our containment of the visible universe. 
This map can be updated, and we can add in new data. 
We have a growing user base of this, and we network domes. 
So you're seeing the edge of the Earth. 
This is Nepal and Tibet. 
Thank you. 
So, he figures out a way to download himself into his environment, actually into a series of books. 
I think that this is the future of interface, it's the future of music, the future of instruments. 
And I'll let Adam tell you. So, Adam is a Ph.D. student at MIT, an expert in music technology and medicine. And Adam and Dan have become close collaborators. 
Adam Boulanger: Yes. So, Tod and I entered into a discussion following the Tewksbury work and it was really about how Dan is an expressive person, and he's an intelligent and creative person. And it's in his face, it's in his breathing, it's in his eyes. How come he can't perform one of his pieces of music? That's our responsibility, and it doesn't make sense. 
But what about expression? What about that moment when an artist delivers that piece of work? You know, do our technologies allow us to express? 
So let's do it. So Dan do you want to tell everyone about what you're going to play now? 
So he can go in Hyperscore. You start out by making melodies and rhythms. 
He can place those exactly where he wants. 
But instead of making it very literal, showing you exactly the camera tracing, we turned it into a graphic that shows you the basic movement, and shows the way it's being analyzed. 
Yeah. 
And these women sing an enchanting song, a song so alluring that all sailors who hear it crash into the rocks and die. 
I want to hear that song. Untie me. 
There is first, the present self. 
Well resisting temptation is hard, as the 19th century English economist Nassau William Senior said, To abstain from the enjoyment which is in our power, or to seek distant rather than immediate results, are among the most painful exertions of the human will. 
So the first is, when you've got one of these devices going, such as this contract to write everyday or pay, it's just a constant reminder that you have no self-control. 
The other problem with commitment devices is that you can always weasel your way out of them. 
And this is a timely issue. 
And we're at a situation now where for every three baby boomers, the McKinsey Global Institute predicts that two will not be able to meet their pre-retirement needs while they're in retirement. 
He said that, We might neglect our future selves because of some failure of belief or imagination. 
When you make an investment, what you're really saying is, I accept that any one of these 100 things could happen to me and determine my wealth. 
Once you find an investment that you're happy with, what people do is they click done and the markers begin to disappear, slowly, one by one. 
If you save very little, the future self is unhappy living on 44 percent of the income. 
And what's nice about it is it's not something that biasing people actually, because as one face smiles, the other face frowns. 
There are programs you can get to see how people might look if they smoke, if they get too much exposure to the sun, if they gain weight and so on. 
Hal is here, so I think we owe it to him as well as yourself to disabuse you of that last image. 
I began my life as a markets professional and continued to take an interest, but most of my recent effort has been looking at the value of what comes to human beings from nature, and which doesn't get priced by the markets. 
And the answer is: Yeah, it can. 
Biodiversity, the living fabric of this planet, is not a gas. 
And if you look at the species level, you saw about fish. 
And at this rate at which we are losing fish, it is a human problem of enormous dimensions, a health problem of a kind we haven't seen before. 
The green represents the percentage. 
The reason this is happening boils down, in my mind, to one basic problem, which is our inability to perceive the difference between public benefits and private profits. 
We tend to constantly ignore public wealth simply because it is in the common wealth, it's common goods. 
It causes pollutants being issued, which have an economic cost, health cost and so on. 
When we measure GDP as a measure of economic performance at the national level, we don't include our biggest asset at the country level. 
When we measure corporate performances, we don't include our impacts on nature and what our business costs society. 
That has to stop. 
So clearly there was a problem with deforestation. 
And I couldn't answer because neither of these companies, good though they are and professional though they are, do not calculate or disclose their externalities. 
That's an example, I think, for us to look at and for us to draw comfort from. 
If more companies did this, and if more sectors engaged this as sectors, you could have analysts, business analysts, and you could have people like us and consumers and NGOs actually look and compare the social performance of companies. 
has already set up a coalition to do this, an international coalition. 
A bit like inflation: you over-issue currency, you get what you see, declining prices. 
So in selecting targets of 450 parts per million and selecting two degrees at the climate negotiations, what we have done is we've made an ethical choice. 
I decided when I was asked to do this that what I really wanted to talk about was my friend Richard Feynman. 
Richard Feynman was a very complex man. 
He was a man of many, many parts. 
It may still exist; I don't know. 
But it was really brutal. 
But the amazing thing was -- Feynman had to leave a little early. 
Sometimes I would win, mostly he would win, but we both enjoyed them. 
And he said, Leonardo, were you closer to your mother or to you father when you were a kid? 
Being Dick, he, of course, wanted to check this. 
There went that theory down the trashcan of history. 
But let me tell you a little bit about Feynman the physicist. 
He would try to visualize it, guided by a small number of simple principles. 
It was so simple, in fact, that I suspect a really smart high school student, who didn't even have calculus, could understand what he wrote down. 
You simply take the proton, and you hit it really sharply with an electron. 
So I think I'll just finish up by saying I actually don't think Feynman would have liked this event. 
Thank you. 
When this trailer showed up at my shop in Berkeley, I'd actually never stepped foot in an Airstream trailer, or any other trailer. 
I decided I had to do some research and really figure out what had gone wrong somewhere along the history of Airstream. 
There's no such things as two walls and a ceiling coming together, where you can change materials and shapes. 
That's the trailer, pretty much finished. 
I thought, Finally, oh yeah great, big company, I'm gonna work with somebody with money for tooling and molding. 
Welcome to Five Dangerous Things You Should Let Your Children Do. 
We put warnings on coffee cups to tell us that the contents may be hot. 
So where does this trend stop? 
And yeah, they're going to cut themselves. 
So practicing throwing things has been shown to stimulate the frontal and parietal lobes, which have to do with visual acuity, 3D understanding, and structural problem solving, so it gives a sense -- it helps develop their visualization skills and their predictive ability. 
Number four -- deconstruct appliances. 
And it's fun for the whole family. 
Narrator: We are all aware of the risk of cancer, but there's another disease that's destined to affect even more of us: arthritis. 
This is the field of biologic replacements, where we replace worn-out parts with new, natural ones. 
And it works, not just for my wife, but certainly for other patients. 
And so that's not going to be a solution that's going to get us global with biologic tissue. 
How are we going to revolutionize artificial joint replacement? 
The space age began 50 years ago in October, and thats exactly what Sputnik looked like. 
They would bring them back and mount them. 
So thats for fun. 
You can see how portable and handy it was to have your own Guttenberg in 1455. 
In 1455, nobody could read. 
But why is this so interesting? Heres the quick story. 
That is why the printing press succeeded, and that is why Martin Luther nailed his 90 theses to the door: because he was complaining that the Catholic Church had gone amok in printing out indulgences and selling them in every town and village and city in all of Western Europe. 
Instead of showing an object from the stage Im going to do something special for the first time. 
We are going to show, actually, what the library looks like, OK? 
And all throughout the library are different objects, different spaces. 
And yet, looking at them, you would see a machine and a molecule. 
And what does a lump of coal have to do with the Internet? 
What that means is, a 200-megabyte file looks like this, ladies and gentlemen. OK? 
The ego is not supposed to be involved in graphic design. 
So then I can add some color in with the background and add a bit more color in with the words themselves, and this way, working with the art director, I'm able to bring it to just the right point that it's puzzling for the audience -- they can figure out that there's something they have to read -- but it's not impossible for them to read. 
So I'm currently working on a book, which plays with both senses of the word, as I explore some of my own ideas and inquiries in a visual display of rather peacock-like grandeur. 
I've been sending out valentines on a fairly large scale since 2005. 
There's a longer story to this, but I did get them all done in time, and they were extremely well received. 
I got an almost 100 percent response rate. 
I had this idea that I wanted people to receive a kind of mysterious love letter, like a found fragment in their mailbox. 
And I specifically wrote four pages that don't connect. 
I'm certain I can see you blushing. 
So I solicited friends to send me their used Christmas cards, and I made 500 of these. 
What does it say? 
So that's why I do what I do, and why I spend so much time and effort on it, and why I work in the commercial, public sphere, as opposed to the isolated, private sphere of fine art: because I want as many people as possible to see my work, notice it, be drawn into it, and be able to take something from it. 
And I actually really feel that it's worthwhile to spend my valuable and limited time on this Earth in this way. 
And I thank you for allowing me to show it to you. 
The main characteristics of such a system is that there's one sole contact point to the ground. 
He's now keeping a constant distance to Thomas. 
And of course, who wouldn't like to take a ride on one of these. 
And I say, What is the light bulb good for? 
Even when you're standing in front of a megaphone, it's pretty much every direction. 
I got this waterfall I recorded in my back yard. 
You have to be kind of smart, and though I did not graduate from college doesn't mean I'm stupid, because you cannot be stupid and do very much in the world today. 
We're just starting to really discover the laws of nature and science and physics. 
I have been really lucky with this technology: all of a sudden as it is ready, the world is ready to accept it. 
This unit that I played goes from about 200 hertz to above the range of hearing. 
It's actually emitting ultrasound -- low-level ultrasound -- that's about 100,000 vibrations per second. 
And the sound that you're hearing, unlike a regular speaker on which all the sound is made on the face, is made out in front of it, in the air. 
Or you can whisper in the ear of a supposed terrorist some Biblical verse. 
We put it on a turret with a camera, so that when they shoot at you, you're over there, and it's there. 
I took it back to the Pentagon after it got declassified, when the patent issued, and told the people back there about it, and they laughed, and then I took them back a demo and they bought. 
So, I've been really lucky as an inventor. 
I've got a Coke can opening that's right in your head; that's really cool. 
Appreciate it very much. 
I thought I would talk a little bit about how nature makes materials. 
I've been fascinated by how nature makes materials, and there's a lot of sequence to how they do such an exquisite job. 
So that's the vision that I've been thinking about. 
There's diatoms made out of SIO2, and they're magnetotactic bacteria that make small, single-domain magnets used for navigation. 
And I was really fortunate to have President Obama visit my lab this year on his visit to MIT, and I really wanted to give him a periodic table. 
What if he says, 'Oh, I already have one,' or, 'I've already memorized it'?  
Now if you take all billion viruses, and you can put them in one drop of liquid, you can force them to interact with anything you want on the periodic table. 
So basically, viruses can't replicate themselves; they need a host. 
And so through a process of selection evolution, we went from being able to have a virus that made a crummy battery to a virus that made a good battery to a virus that made a record-breaking, high-powered battery that's all made at room temperature, basically at the bench top. 
You can make lots of amplifications to it. 
When you shine light on them, you can see them bubbling. 
In this case, you're seeing oxygen bubbles come out. 
The last example are solar cells. 
And what we've found is through genetic engineering, we can actually increase the efficiencies of these solar cells to record numbers for these types of dye-sensitized systems. 
I'll hear things like an extra room in the house, the basement, the coffee shop, the library. 
And then you'll hear things like the train, a plane, a car -- so, the commute. 
Why is that happening? 
You don't have a workday anymore. You have work moments. 
It's like the front door of the office is like a Cuisinart, and you walk in and your day is shredded to bits, because you have 15 minutes here and 30 minutes there, and then something else happens and you're pulled off your work, and you've got to do something else, then you have 20 minutes, then it's lunch. 
I sat at my desk. I used my expensive computer. 
You might have a quick idea, but to be in deep thought about a problem and really consider a problem carefully, you need long stretches of uninterrupted time. 
Now, there are different kinds of distractions, but there aren't the really bad kinds of distractions that I'll talk about in just a minute. 
So sleep is about sleep phases, or stages -- some people call them different things. 
If you're interrupted and woken up, you have to start again. 
I don't think anyone would say yes. 
They'll also say -- sometimes they'll also say, Well, if I can't see the person, how do I know they're working? 
which is ridiculous, of course, but that's one of the excuses that managers give. 
No one cared about letting people take a smoke break for 15 minutes 10 years ago, so why does everyone care about someone going to Facebook here and there, or Twitter here and there, or YouTube here and there? 
Those are the real problems in the modern office today. 
That's kind of bad. 
And meetings are just toxic, terrible, poisonous things during the day at work. 
What if they're doing important work? 
If there are 10 people in the meeting, it's a 10-hour meeting; it's not a one-hour meeting. 
It's 10 hours of productivity taken from the rest of the organization to have this one one-hour meeting, which probably should have been handled by two or three people talking for a few minutes. 
These things don't exist outside of the office. 
I have about three minutes, so that'll fit perfectly. 
I don't know if people still do that. 
So just the afternoon, one Thursday. 
This is when people actually get stuff done, is when no one's bothering them, when no one's interrupting them. 
All these discussions and decisions you thought you had to make at this one time at 9 a.m. on Monday, just forget about them, and things will be just fine. 
And I specialize in human behavioral research, and applying what we learn to think about the future in different ways, and to design for that future. 
And it'll take about another two years to connect the next billion after that. 
So this is interesting to us, because the conscious and subconscious decision process implies that the stuff that you do take with you and end up using has some kind of spiritual, emotional or functional value. 
But if you ask people what the three most important things that they carry are -- across cultures and across gender and across contexts -- most people will say keys, money and, if they own one, a mobile phone. 
And a mobile phone, it turns out, is a great recovery tool. 
But -- and it's a pretty big but -- we forget. 
I think, quite a nice feature. 
And these things don't stay in the center of gravity, but over time, they gravitate there. 
But the difference between this and that is, there's no central authority trying to control this. 
And OK, if you break one of these things here, you return it to the carrier. 
They'll probably give you three new ones, right? 
It challenges the norms. 
This is how it's shifting. 
I'm just the messenger. 
And companies like Navigenics and DNA Direct and 23andMe, that are giving you your genetic profiles, are giving some people a sense of, Gosh, well, what can I do about it? 
And so my request is, please, let's make technologies that make people more human, and not less. 
I made a lot of mistakes and dumb decisions, of course. 
So let's say for instance that you're on your way to your best friend's wedding and you're trying to get to the airport and you're stuck in terrible traffic, and you finally arrive at your gate and you've missed your flight. 
We wish we'd taken better advantage of the education that we did have. 
Odds are, you're not going to care in five years. 
It feels terrible. Regret feels awful. 
And the thought was, Make it go away! 
We just want it to vanish. 
Make it go away. Make it go away. 
In point of fact, no insurance covers acts of idiocy. 
And the problem is that there are certain things that happen in life that we desperately want to change and we cannot. 
But first I want to say that the intensity and persistence with which we experience these emotional components of regret is obviously going to vary depending on the specific thing that we're feeling regretful about. 
The FDA estimates that of all the Americans who have tattoos, 17 percent of us regret getting them. 
Now in my case, this really wasn't a problem, because it's actually very easy to laugh at yourself when you're 29 years old and you want your mommy because you don't like your new tattoo. 
All right. 
And what I loved about this image of the compass was that I felt like it encapsulated both of these ideas in one simple image. 
Even in wealthy countries it is common now to see inequality growing. 
In the United States, since 2001 we've had five years of economic growth, five years of productivity growth in the workplace, but median wages are stagnant and the percentage of working families dropping below the poverty line is up by four percent. 
It is also unstable. 
Because primarily of the power of the Internet, people of modest means can band together and amass vast sums of money that can change the world for some public good if they all agree. 
You saw one reference to that in what we were able to do with AIDS drugs. 
When I got out of office and was asked to work, first in the Caribbean, to try to help deal with the AIDS crisis, generic drugs were available for about 500 dollars a person a year. 
We need a movie on those six categories. 
And all of you need to have it embedded in your brains and to organize yourselves around it. 
You think about whatever your life has been, however many obstacles you have faced in your life, at critical junctures you always knew there was a predictable connection between the effort you exerted and the result you achieved. 
As poor as Haiti is, in the area where Farmer's clinic is active -- and they serve a catchment area far greater than the medical professionals they have would indicate they could serve -- since 1988, they have not lost one person to tuberculosis, not one. 
We're essentially implementing what Paul Farmer did in Haiti: he develops and trains paid community health workers who are able to identify health problems, ensure that people who have AIDS or TB are properly diagnosed and take their medicine regularly, who work on bringing about health education, clean water and sanitation, providing nutritional supplements and moving people up the chain of health care if they have problems of the severity that require it. 
The procedures that make this work have been perfected, as I said, by Paul Farmer and his team in their work in rural Haiti over the last 20 years. 
And the results were so good that the Rwandan government has now agreed to adopt the model for the entire country, and has strongly supported and put the full resources of the government behind it. 
And then we have others working in these other related programs. 
So she now works full-time on this for very little pay. 
And not a single soul in this area was being treated for AIDS or tuberculosis. 
Listen to this: less than four-tenths of one percent of those being treated stopped taking their medicine or otherwise defaulted on treatment. 
We're now working with Partners in Health and the Ministry of Health in Rwanda and our Foundation folks to scale this system up. 
We need initial upfront investment to train doctors, nurses, health administration and community health workers throughout the country, to set up the information technology, the solar energy, the water and sanitation, the transportation infrastructure. 
I had a really hard time in school. 
In fact, my mother told me eventually that I was the little kid in the village who cried all the way to school. 
I ran away. 
And when the natural breeze isn't enough, the kids deploy bubbles, but not the kind of bubbles you know. 
They know they can control their world. 
Landscaping. 
They're part of the rice cycle and these skills will be valuable for them in their future. 
The food is incredible. 
Green School is a place of pioneers, local and global. 
The kids are from 25 countries. 
You practice ancient Balinese arts. 
The kids love it. 
And together these volunteers and the teachers are deeply committed to creating a new generation of global, green leaders. 
The Green School effect -- we don't know what it is. 
And how did we do all this? 
It's a double helix. 
From the time the foundations were finished, in three months it had roofs and floors. 
You ruined my life, but you gave me an incredible future. 
And then a third attempt, which also patched me back together pretty well, until it failed. 
I tried out various computer voices that were available online, and for several months I had a British accent, which Chaz called Sir Lawrence. 
There are all sorts of html codes you can use to control the timing and inflection of computer voices, and I've experimented with them. 
But what value do we place on the sound of our own voice? 
But it wasn't that simple. 
or Roger 2.0. 
This is the first version of my computer voice. 
When I read something, it will read in my voice. 
The voice was created by a company in Scotland named CereProc. 
I plan to use it on television, radio and the Internet. 
People who need a voice should know that most computers already come with built-in speaking systems. 
John Hunter: All my life I was a motormouth. 
I doubt, on that day 50 years ago, they even dreamed of what Salman Khan has accomplished. 
But that's not the point. 
I have learned from Wikipedia that, starting with that humble beginning, PLATO established forums, message boards, online testing, email, chat rooms, picture languages, instant messaging, remote screen sharing and multiple-player games. 
But online, everybody speaks at the same speed. 
Ironic that my legs are fine, and it's my shoulders that slow up my walk. 
When you see me today, I look like the Phantom of the Opera. 
Id like to dedicate this one to all the women in South Africa -- those women who refused to dwindle in the midst of apartheid. 
 Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama.   Through the mist of the tears in your eyes on my childhood memory,   I know the truth in your smile,   I know the truth in your smile,   piercing through the gloom of my ignorance.   Oh, there is a mama lying down sleeping   you're very ill and your heart crying.   Wondering, wondering, wondering, wondering where is this world coming to.   Is it right the children have to fend for themselves? No, no, no, no, no. no.   Is it right heaping trouble on an old lady's head?   So unlucky faceless people.   Thula Mama Mama, Thula Mama. Thula Mama Mama.   Thula Mama, Thula Mama, Thula Mama Mama, Thula Mama   Tomorrow its going to be better.   Tomorrow it's going to be better to climb, Mama.   Thula Mama, Thula Mama.   Am I to break into the song like the blues man or troubadour.   And then from long distance in no blues club am I to sing,   baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby, baby.   Should I now stop singing of love,   now that my memorys surrounded by blood?   Sister, why oh why do we at times mistake a pimple for a cancer?   So who are they who says, no more love poems now?   I want to sing a song of love   for that woman who jumped the fences pregnant   and still gave birth to a healthy child.   Softly I walk into the sun rays of the smile   that will ignite my love song, my song of life,   my song of love, my song of life, my song of love,   my song of life, my song of love, my song of life.   Ooh, Ive not tried to run away from song,   I hear a persistent voice, more powerful than the enemy bombs.   The song that washed our lives and the rains of our blood.   My song of love and my song of life, my song of love,   my song of life, my song of love,   my song of life, my song of love -- I want everybody to sing with me --   my song of life, my song of love, my song of life -- everybody sing with me --   my song of life, my song of love -- I cant hear you --   my song of love, my song of life -- you can do better --   my song of life, my song of love -- keep singing, keep singing --   my song of love, my song of life, yes, my song of love --   you can do better than that --   my song of life, yes, my song of love, my song of life, my song of love --   keep singing, keep singing, keep singing -- my song of love.   Oh yeah. My song of -- a love song, my song of life. Sing. A love song, my song of life. Sing.   Love song, my song of life. Sing. Love song, my song of life. Sing.   Love song, my song of life. Sing. Love song, my song of life.   Love song, my song of life.   Newspapers are dying for a few reasons. 
Let me tell you my story. 
I came to London, and I've seen performance by Cirque du Soleil. 
I wanted my artistic statement, my interpretation of reality. 
The secret is that we were treating the whole newspaper as one piece, as one composition -- like music. 
And design is responsible for this experience. 
What really makes it amazing: that the circulation of these newspapers were growing too. 
Same in Poland: plus 13, up to 35 percent raise of circulation after three years. 
You can work for a small company, in a boring branch. 
So bear with me as I take you through this journey. 
I was running across the street, and the only thing that I actually remember is feeling like a grenade went off in my head. 
And I remember putting my hands on the ground and feeling my life's blood emptying out of my neck and my mouth. 
I had no idea what was going on, but strangers intervened, kept my heart moving, beating. 
I had lots of titanium put in me, cadaver bones to try to get my feet moving the right way. 
And I needed that wisdom at that moment in my life. 
So they eventually started matching their talents and skills to all of my needs. 
So they figured not being able to see is one thing, but they need to get me to talk. 
The redundancy was actually good for me. 
So everything is different when you're a sighted person because you take that for granted. 
We didn't have words like crowd-sourcing and radical collaboration when I had my accident. 
A peasant, who was walking to market that morning, ran towards where the gunshot had come from, and found a young man writhing in agony on the floor, clearly shot by a dueling wound. 
Galois was taken to the local hospital where he died the next day in the arms of his brother. 
And the last words he said to his brother were, Don't cry for me, Alfred. 
But a few years earlier, while still at school, he'd actually cracked one of the big mathematical problems at the time. 
Symmetry can also help us to explain what's happening in the Large Hadron Collider in CERN. 
Artists too love to play around with symmetry. 
Here is Thomas Mann talking about symmetry in The Magic Mountain. 
And the gateway you see behind has eight columns, with beautiful symmetrical designs on them. 
And I said to Professor Kurokawa, Wow, the architects must have really been kicking themselves when they realized that they'd made a mistake and put this one upside down. 
Recently I took my family -- we do these rather kind of nerdy mathematical trips, which my family love. 
I think one of the problems about school mathematics is it doesn't look at how mathematics is embedded in the world we live in. 
So they explored a more geometric art. 
And the power of mathematics is often to change one thing into another, to change geometry into language. 
Actually, the invention of the number zero was a very modern concept, seventh century A.D., by the Indians. 
I can reflect it in the line through X, or the line through Y, or the line through Z. 
So both of these objects have six symmetries. 
So the little table here records how the algebra of these symmetries work. 
And this enables us to distinguish why the symmetries of these objects -- they both have six symmetries. So why shouldn't we say they have the same symmetries? 
And, using those rules, he was able to say that there are in fact only two objects with six symmetries. 
And all the tiles match up again. 
So, there was a sixth of a turn. A third of a turn where the Z pieces meet. 
How many symmetries does a Rubik's Cube have? 
Rather than you all shouting out, I want you to count how many digits there are in that number. Okay? 
Because this one. I think there were a few here. 
The people who just last sat down. 
And I'd like to review just how unintended consequences play the part that they do. 
But he did his best, and he kept meticulous records that let him transform that branch of medicine. 
So there were benefits in calamities -- benefits to pure science, as well as to applied science and medicine. 
There are two historians of business at the University of Maryland, Brent Goldfarb and David Kirsch, who have done some extremely interesting work, much of it still unpublished, on the history of major innovations. 
They have combined the list of major innovations, and they've discovered that the greatest number, the greatest decade, for fundamental innovations, as reflected in all of the lists that others have made -- a number of lists that they have merged -- was the Great Depression. 
So we see that sometimes, as a result of these dislocations, as a result of people leaving their original intended career and going into something else where their creativity could make a difference, that depressions and all kinds of other unfortunate events can have a paradoxically stimulating effect on creativity. 
We need to see what they can do for us. 
It's kind of like a new approach to desktop computing. 
And some of those we wanted to transfer to the icons in our system. 
Also just like paper, around our workspace we'll pin things up to the wall to remember them later, and I can do the same thing here, and you know, you'll see post-it notes and things like that around people's offices. 
So one thing we have for that is like a grid align, kind of -- so you get that more traditional desktop. Things are kind of grid aligned. 
The photo was made when we were deep in the valley over there. 
But I think the point is that this is metaphor with teeth, and it's with those teeth that I want to propose today that we rethink a little bit about the role of contemporary math -- not just financial math, but math in general. 
And he said, It's funny you ask that, because it's actually called black box trading. 
There's a company in Boston called Nanex, and they use math and magic and I don't know what, and they reach into all the market data and they find, actually sometimes, some of these algorithms. 
And when they find them they pull them out and they pin them to the wall like butterflies. 
Pragmatic Chaos is, like all of Netflix algorithms, trying to do the same thing. 
Pragmatic Chaos, like all Netflix algorithms, determines, in the end, 60 percent of what movies end up being rented. 
Wouldn't that be handy? 
And it uses what's called a bin-packing algorithm. 
And this is really where the wires come right up into the city. 
But before I dive into those I want to admit that I am an optimist. 
And part of the reason I feel that way is looking at the past. 
Another statistic, perhaps my favorite, is to look at childhood deaths. 
The next breakthrough is to cut that 10 million in half again. 
Why? Well there's only a few diseases that account for the vast majority of those deaths: diarrhea, pneumonia and malaria. 
And the disease was all over the world. 
And two tools helped bring the death rate down. 
But, malaria -- even the million deaths a year caused by malaria greatly understate its impact. 
Over 200 million people at any one time are suffering from it. 
And bed nets are a great tool. 
So every tool that we've ever had in the past has eventually become ineffective. 
It involves communicators to keep the funding high, to keep the visibility high, to tell the success stories. 
It involves social scientists, so we know how to get not just 70 percent of the people to use the bed nets, but 90 percent. 
It seems like the kind of question that people would spend a lot of time on, and we'd understand very well. 
Let's start with why this is important. 
Not only has that been weak. it's getting weaker. 
And the answer is no. 
But it in no way is associated with being a better teacher. 
They have 66 schools -- mostly middle schools, some high schools -- and what goes on is great teaching. 
If you have a kid who's behind, you would know you could assign them that video to watch and review the concept. 
I'm going to send everyone here a free copy of this book. 
I only have three minutes so I'm going to have to talk fast, and it will use up your spare mental cycles, so multitasking may be hard. 
So, it's logical that you'd have one there, on the minor road entering the major. 
And so, the question is, what does that cost us? 
That's just the gasoline cost. There is also pollution, wear on the car, and time. 
Discount that back to the present, at five percent: over two million dollars for a stop sign, in each direction. 
Now, if you look at what that adjacent property is worth, you could actually buy the property, cut down the shrubbery to improve the sight line, and then sell it off again. 
And because we no longer need to use sunlight, we have very specialized lights that are made for the operating room. 
And this is what I think is the magic of fluorescence. 
That's what the surgeon is saying in the operating room when the patient's on the table. 
But then we actually don't know that it's all out. 
And we wait. 
So now you're faced with telling your patient, first of all, that they may need another surgery, or that they need additional therapy such as radiation or chemotherapy. 
So even if the tumor is not right on the surface, you'll still be able to see it. 
So if you're driving on the freeway and you want to know where's the next gas station, you have a map to tell you that that gas station is down the road. 
So with our technology, we can tell right away. 
Nerves, if they are injured, can cause paralysis, can cause pain. 
But you know what, these little nerves are so small, in the context of prostate cancer, that they are actually never seen. 
People said, We've been doing it this way for all these years. 
But I went ahead anyway. 
We have been able to see nerves for facial expression, for facial movement, for breathing -- every single nerve -- nerves for urinary function around the prostate. 
I have patients who would benefit from this. 
I think that this will result in my surgeries with a better outcome and fewer complications. 
And this takes the long-term steady courage of the day-in day-out struggle to educate, to persuade and to win acceptance. 
And that is the light that I want to shine on health and medicine today. 
They receive input from thousands of upstream partners and compute their own electrical outputs, which then, if they pass a certain threshold, will go to thousands of downstream partners. 
If we could activate cells, we could see what powers they can unleash, what they can initiate and sustain. 
Now in the 20th century, there was some hope that was generated through the development of pharmaceuticals for treating brain disorders, and while many drugs have been developed that can alleviate symptoms of brain disorders, practically none of them can be considered to be cured. 
There's one other magic trick you need to make this all happen, and that's the ability to get light into the brain. 
So how do we do this? 
And one of the things that we did was to adopt a very classical model of fear. 
And over time -- in this case, a mouse, which is a good animal model, commonly used in such experiments -- the animal learns to fear the tone. 
The animal will react by freezing, sort of like a deer in the headlights. 
Now I want to close on one story, which we think is another possibility -- which is that maybe these molecules, if you can do ultra-precise control, can be used in the brain itself to make a new kind of prosthetic, an optical prosthetic. 
Maybe 100,000 people have Cochlear implants, which allow them to hear. 
And new hope in gene therapy has been developed because viruses like the adeno-associated virus, which probably most of us around this room have, and it doesn't have any symptoms, which have been used in hundreds of patients to deliver genes into the brain or the body. 
And the retina, of course, is a complex structure. 
We're going to take these blue light photosensors and install them on a layer of cells in the middle of the retina in the back of the eye and convert them into a camera -- just like installing solar cells all over those neurons to make them light sensitive. 
So this pre-clinical study, I think, bodes hope for the kinds of things we're hoping to do in the future. 
And by turning things off, it's more or less a zero. 
Does that mean that some day you could download memories and maybe upload them? 
What determines the types and distributions of microbes indoors? 
And we looked at three different types of rooms. 
Hospitals use two and a half times the amount of energy as office buildings. 
I've heard somebody say that you're as healthy as your gut. 
And obviously I'm physically a very strong person, as you can tell --  -- so I wasn't worried about carrying this thing 20 blocks. 
People were out. 
And I thought, well, this is the power of a city. 
But the system itself of this city was thriving. 
Everybody contributes a little bit. 
Well, it was the whole city. 
So it's been a very optimistic time, I think, and I want to just talk about a few of those things. 
That is -- you know, there's no sentence that kind of conjures up that period better than that, I think, which is that you suddenly have the power to put up a picture of your dog and link to it, and somebody reading the page has the power to click on that link or not click on that link. 
But it's still a very one-to-one kind of relationship. 
About two months ago, I had the great breakthrough -- one of my great, kind of shining achievements -- which is that my website finally became a top result for Steven Johnson. 
And in fact, I think that's not entirely true anymore. 
That little list there would change. 
That's not necessarily something we didn't know already. 
I had no idea. 
But what's interesting is you can then broaden the search and actually see interesting things and get a sense of what else is out there. 
They're talking about slavery in 1860. 
And OK, I didn't learn anything new there as well -- that's pretty obvious. 
I'll go very quickly. 
It's caused a lot of controversy because people thought that this was the ultimate kind of one man, one modem democracy, where anybody can get out there and get their voice heard. 
And the question was, were the birds singing? 
Well, in my world, this is a rubber duck. 
That was a nice thing to get. 
If the end game is global warming, they're doing great. 
So perhaps we could develop a strategy of change, which requires humility. And in my business as an architect, it's unfortunate the word humility and the word architect have not appeared in the same paragraph since The Fountainhead. 
There is an infinite game, and we're playing in that infinite game. 
And so we call it cradle to cradle, and our goal is very simple. 
This is what I presented to the White House. 
So we've designed products and we analyzed chemicals down to the parts per million. 
We can ask ourselves, what is justice, and is justice blind, or is justice blindness? 
Is there anybody here who doesn't breathe? 
Here's Dr. Venkataswamy in India, who's figured out how to do mass-produced health. 
They become building steel. 
My childhood summers were in the Puget Sound of Washington, among the first growth and big growth. 
My grandfather had been a lumberjack in the Olympics, so I have a lot of tree karma I am working off. 
So, all of a sudden, here I am, graduating from high school in 1969, and this happens, and we realize that away went away. 
Now if we look at the word competition, I'm sure most of you've used it. 
You know, most people don't realize it comes from the Latin competere, which means strive together. 
It means the way Olympic athletes train with each other. 
So we've been looking at the idea of competition as a way of cooperating in order to get fit together. 
Now most environmentalists don't say growth is good, because, in our lexicon, asphalt is two words: assigning blame. 
Technical nutrition will be in an order of magnitude of biological nutrition. 
Customers. 
Biotechnical nutrients -- the Model U for Ford Motor, a cradle to cradle car -- concept car. 
The idea here of the car is that some of the materials go back to the industry forever, some of the materials go back to soil -- it's all solar-powered. 
We're doing 12 cities for China right now, based on cradle to cradle as templates. 
Our assignment is to develop protocols for the housing for 400 million people in 12 years. 
We start to integrate commercial and mixed use so the people all have centers and places to be. 
And then it makes natural gas, which then goes back into the city to power the fuel for the cooking for the city. 
And then the compost is all taken back to the roofs of the city, where we've got farming, because what we've done is lifted up the city, the landscape, into the air to -- to restore the native landscape on the roofs of the buildings. 
They're probably less cell dense. 
And they're controlling basically everything that the nervous system has to do. 
Because what we're trying to measure, the RNA -- which is the readout from our genes -- is very labile, and so we have to move very quickly. 
And then the laser actually cuts. 
Now this may look like a bunch of dots to you, but each one of these individual dots is actually a unique piece of the human genome that we spotted down on glass. 
And when we take a sample and we hybridize it to it, we get a unique fingerprint, if you will, quantitatively of what genes are turned on in that sample. 
So roughly, we have 50 million data points for a given human brain. 
Green is the sort of cool areas where it's not turned on. 
Genes send the instructions to make proteins. 
So drugs bind to proteins and either turn them off, etc. 
It's as interesting a side effect as it could be. 
One other thing you can do with such a thing is you can, because it's a pattern matching exercise, because there's unique fingerprint, we can actually scan through the entire genome and find other proteins that show a similar fingerprint. 
Now they can come in and they can start to get clues about activity. 
And then we find some outliers, some things that lie beyond the cloud. 
And those genes are interesting, but they're very subtle. 
These are things where genes are turned on in an individual cell type. 
I think these resources are incredibly valuable. 
And there is something else I believe in the back of your mind you also know. 
And worst of all, we will never know. 
And the reason is that -- take Africa for example. 
Africans have already got a lot of aid. 
We don't know. 
And a third question: Education. 
And in this way, you can take the guesswork out of policy-making by knowing what works, what doesn't work and why. 
It's going from intention to action. 
We cannot keep giving lentils to people. 
We can just run an experiment. 
Second thing is, how about the use? 
Well, in business, that's certainly not the way we would go about it. 
Now I'm going to show you what we get with various education interventions. 
So now, I started from the big problem, and I couldn't answer it. 
In Haiti, about 200,000 people died -- actually, a bit more by the latest estimate. 
So, why is that? 
With deworming, you can get an extra year of education for three dollars. 
So this evidence is powerful. 
It can prompt action. 
These economics I'm proposing, it's like 20th century medicine. 
Fantastic tales, anecdotes from speakers. 
And turnarounds are part and parcel of what I have focused on for most of my professional career. 
And she said, I want to write a case, Euvin -- a case on a public-sector leader that has lessons for the corporate world. 
The first thing that I saw was North America at night -- glowing, in all its glory. A warm feeling. Light. 
Entrepreneurs, dynamic people, people with hope. 
So let's start shedding light on this amazing eclectic continent that has so much to offer. 
So I want to share with you some of these bellwether signals, or signs, and winds of change that are sweeping this continent. 
And let's start at the high level, on the macro-factors. 
Egypt: from the 16 percent to about 8.4 percent. 
But what were they there for? To acquire assets. 
Guarantee Trust Bank recently issued the first Euro Bond out of Africa, and this excludes South Africa. 
2.2 to 2.4 million barrels of oil a day -- the same league as Kuwait, the same league as Venezuela. 
So let's unpack those very quickly, and I'm going to move through these very, very, very fast because I can see that clock counting down. 
What else is going on there? Egypt. 
Close to the Mediterranean, near Alexandria -- textiles, petrochemicals. 
So what are the signs that things are fundamentally changing? 
What's going on in some of the other countries? 
But in any investment decision, the key question is, What is my alternative investment? 
Now, when looking at Africa vis-a-vis other things, and countries in Africa vis-a-vis other things, comparisons become important. 
In 1899, Joseph Conrad released The Heart of Darkness, a tale of grim horror along the Congo River. 
Brain magic to me indicates that area of magic dealing with psychological and mind-reading effects. 
So, now you can see how easy it is for me to manipulate the human mind, once you know how. 
No, but you're OK, yes? 
That is weird. 
Thank you. 
Now, I'm going to give you some demonstrations up here, live, right now. 
And let's see, down at the end, here, can you also come up, real quick? 
Now, it's very important for everybody here to realize I haven't set anything up with you guys. 
You don't know what's about to happen. Is that agreed? 
OK, would you mind just standing over here for a moment? 
Your name is? 
OK, a little bit closer, come over -- they look really nervous up here. 
Voodoo? 
Besides, who's next, no, OK. 
I want you to be aware of the sensations, but don't say anything until I ask you, and don't open your eyes until I ask you. 
Yes or no, did you feel anything? 
Yeah, I walk around nightclubs all night like this. 
And can you take a seat right over here for me, if you don't mind. 
And I want you to hold it there, just for a moment, and I only want you to allow your hand to sink and drift and float back to the tabletop at the same rate and speed as you drift and float into this relaxed state of awareness, and allow it to go all the way down to the tabletop. 
OK, and only when you feel the pressure go back, I want you to allow your hand to slowly drift back to the tabletop, but only when you feel the pressure. 
Allow it to stick firmly to the tabletop, keep your eyes closed. 
Can you stand up? 
Imagine a connection between you and him. 
Point directly at his forehead. 
Now, I want you to be aware that in a moment, when I snap my fingers, your eyes will open, again. 
It's nearly impossible to break a Coke bottle. 
You see, psychokinesis is the paranormal influence of the mind on physical events and processes. 
Be careful, because it is sharp. Just hold on to it for a moment. 
And I want you to release that negative energy by shaking it from side to side. 
There's five letters in the title. 
There's a K in his name, there is a K. 
You knew! 
No one in the audience. And just to help you out, I'll block them from view, so nobody can see what you're doing. 
But I don't want you to know either, so swivel around on your chair. 
Your right hand. Is that -- no, OK. 
OK, tell me when to stop. 
Yes, there's one. 
OK. Do you think it's here, yes or no? 
Neither, oh, OK. 
We're the only creatures with fully developed moral sentiments. 
After 10 years of experiments, I found it. 
It can't be that important. 
Turns out it wasn't so easy. 
And when it's produced, it has a three-minute half-life, and degrades rapidly at room temperature. 
Then I had to measure morality. 
So I started smaller. 
So poor countries are by and large low trust countries. 
So we recruit some people for an experiment. 
We give them lots of instruction, and we never ever deceive them. 
So think about this experiment for minute. 
But why? 
Two things. 
I didn't know for sure oxytocin caused trustworthiness. 
I used everything short of a drill to get oxytocin into my own brain. 
These include massage, dancing and praying. 
In this book, Smith argued that we are moral creatures, not because of a top-down reason, but for a bottom-up reason. 
So if I do something that hurts you, I feel that pain. 
I'm working at a gas station on the outskirts of Santa Barbara, California. 
Tell that guy to wait half an hour. 
So this is a classic con called the pigeon drop, and I was the pigeon. 
They have many of the attributes of psychopaths. 
One is through improper nurturing. 
So we've studied sexually abused women, and about half those don't release oxytocin on stimulus. 
She had the biggest increase in oxytocin. 
So I think it tells us that we've designed this ritual to connect us to this new couple, connect us emotionally. 
So my penchant for hugging other people has earned me the nickname Dr. Love. 
We have found that people who release more oxytocin are happier. 
And they're happier because they have better relationships of all types. 
I'll play at these rock shows, be on stage standing completely still, and they're like, What's she doing?! What's she doing?! 
So basically, with both of your hands you're controlling pitch and volume and kind of trying to create the illusion that you're doing separate notes, when really it's continuously going ... 
Maybe we'll go into the next tune, because I totally lost where this is going. 
It was invented around the 1920s, and the inventor, Lon Theremin -- he also was a musician besides an inventor -- he came up with the idea for making the theremin, I think, when he was working on some shortwave radios. 
And then also, you're trying to stay very, very, very still because little movements with other parts of your body will affect the pitch, or sometimes if you're holding a low note --  -- and breathing will make it ... 
And it's meant to kind of reflect how we engage with histories or stories on the Internet, in a less linear form. 
He was sent in 1907 to Palestine by the Zionist organization to look at areas for Jewish settlement and acquire land for Jewish settlement. 
During the course of this trial, all of the rabbits died, except for a few, which were euthanized. 
So when you look at a detail of this work, you can see, the man on the upper-left is the father of the woman sitting next to him. 
During the time I was in Bosnia, the mortal remains of Zumra's eldest son were exhumed from a mass grave. 
However, the other individuals are represented by these blue slides, which show tooth and bone samples that were matched to DNA evidence collected from family members to prove they were the identities of those individuals. 
There's also parents who participated who wouldn't let their children participate because they thought they were too young to decide for themselves. 
It was released in Poland to create friction between Frank and Hitler, so that Hitler would imagine Frank was trying to usurp his power. 
Again, talking about fate, I was interested in the stories and fate of particular works of art. 
Chapter 12 highlights people being born into a battle that is not of their making, but becomes their own. 
I'm not quite sure whether I really want to see a snare drum at nine o'clock or so in the morning. 
And it sounds quite simple, but actually it's quite a big, big job. 
I will follow the instructions, the tempo markings, the dynamics. 
But here I'm being told that the piece of music is very quick. 
Just the basic feeling. 
We have to listen to ourselves, first of all. 
And I just feel, at last, one with the stick and one with the drum. 
Not just translate them, but interpret them. 
can be felt with just the tiniest part of your finger, there. 
Every single one of us, depending on where we're sitting, will experience this sound quite, quite differently. 
Do you see what I mean? So, because of this explosion in access to sound, especially through the deaf community, this has not only affected how music institutions, how schools for the deaf treat sound -- and not just as a means of therapy -- although of course, being a participator of music, that definitely is the case as well. 
May be great there, but terrible up there. 
We just -- we go like that, and we imagine that that's what deafness is about. 
In a year's time, it could be two extra steps. 
For me, as a musician who deals with 99 percent of new music, it's very easy for me to say, Oh yes, I like that piece. 
Oh no, I don't like that piece. And so on. 
And please try to create that through your clapping. Try. Just -- please try. 
Very good! Snow. Snow. Have you ever heard snow? 
Evelyn Glennie: Well then, stop clapping.  Try again. 
See, you're awake. 
However, not one of you got out of your seats to think, Right! How can I clap? OK, maybe ...  
I may feel sorrowful, or happy, or exhilarated, or angry when I play certain pieces of music, but I'm not necessarily wanting you to feel exactly the same thing. 
The performer is in the worst possible position for the actual sound, because they're hearing the contact of the stick on the drum, or the mallet on the bit of wood, or the bow on the string, etc., or the breath that's creating the sound from wind and brass. 
It's a video game move from Star Fox. 
And we've gone from one board to 48 boards. 
What the site's known for, because it has this environment, is it's fostered the creation of a lot of Internet phenomena, viral videos and whatnot, known as memes. 
And so there are three that I want to show you specifically. 
It is where a third of all the traffic is going. 
They got it taken offline and managed to piss off part of the Internet. 
So we've got this activist group that's this grassroots group that's come out of the site. 
Dusty is the name that we've given to this cat. 
We're sacrificing a lot of that, and I think in doing so, moving towards those things, we're losing something valuable. 
You're lucky that this is not being streamed to them live right now. 
Well, you never know. Some of them -- we've got people in 75 countries out there watching. 
Don't tell. 
And saying whatever you like, I think, is powerful. 
And the thing is, I didn't make it into that presentation because I can't read to you anything that they said, more or less. 
Okay, well. 
You've got this surprising semi-underground influence, but it's not making you a lot of money, yet. 
Yeah. They still didn't know what to think of that though. 
Within five, 10 million years of the bolide impact we had a whole variety of animals going into the water. Why didn't they do that? 
You want to measure it by diversity? 
This slide was shown before. This is the famous Jurassic bird Archaeopteryx. 
If we could roll that first video clip. 
But one with an immense chalkboard in the middle, with lots of little areas of dinosaur rock if you could survive an expedition. 
And the kinds of teams they bring in? 
So, you are finding yourself also in an amazing cultural milieu. 
You're really rubbing shoulders with the world's last great nomadic people. 
Here's the animal that was causing it trouble. 
It is an incredible view of life, and it really began when we began to understand the depth of time. 
We prototyped by CAT-scanning the brain out of this animal. 
Now, this field is just -- and, of course, science in general -- is just -- adventure. 
Narrator: If they can just land it, this croc will provide useful data, helping Paul in his quest to understand Sarcosuchus. 
I've got it. I've got the back legs. 
Paul Sereno: Let's get this tape measure on him. Put it right there. 
Wow. 
Anyway, you find other things, too. 
These are all landlubbing animals. There's a couple of choices. 
And you take those four instances and you realize you have a complex problem. 
They did it within two or three degrees of the pole, to maintain similarity between continents. 
Now we have divergence over time, but we've created the third dimension of area. 
I was a total failure in school, not really headed to graduate high school. 
What about all the kids like me that were in school -- kids like some of you out there -- that were in school and didn't get a chance and will never get a chance to participate in science and technology? 
Because when you go out there as a scholar, and you try to find out longitudinal studies, track records like that, there essentially are very few, if none. 
Thank you very much. 
And as a little girl, I loved the idea of a robot that interacted with us much more like a helpful, trusted sidekick -- something that would delight us, enrich our lives and help us save a galaxy or two. 
I almost lost it this week. 
Leo, this is Cookie Monster. 
We looked at psychological involvement -- how much empathy did you feel for the other person? 
We looked at their desire to cooperate. 
Today we know that families are living further and further apart, and that definitely takes a toll on family relationships and family bonds over distance. 
And as grandma-bot, she can now play, really play, with my sons, with her grandsons, in the real world with his real toys. 
Another was a computer that ran the same touch-screen interface, ran exactly the same dialogues. 
The quality of advice was identical. 
We've invited a lot of kids into this space, and they think it's pretty cool. 
That's her competition. 
Paula Radcliffe, the one person who is sure to snatch the big paycheck out of Derartu Tulu's under-underdog hands, suddenly grabs her leg and starts to fall back. 
They're not doing 26 miles; they're doing 100, 150 miles at a time, and apparently without injury, without problems. 
And if you know it, then you are smarter than anybody else on planet Earth. 
Australopithecus had a tiny little pea brain. 
The only problem is, the first edged weapons only appeared about 200,000 years ago. 
We're not fast. 
Her uterus would be torn. 
Then you go beyond 26 miles, into the distance that medical science also told us would be fatal to humans -- remember Pheidippides died when he ran 26 miles -- you get to 50 and 100 miles, and suddenly it's a different game. 
Well Emily Baer -- 500 runners -- she finishes in eighth place, in the top 10, even though she stopped at all the aid stations to breastfeed her baby during the race -- and yet, beat 492 other people. 
And you'll get slower and slower, until eventually you're back to running the same speed you were at age 19. 
Now I defy you to come up with any other physical activity -- and please don't say golf -- something that actually is hard -- where geriatrics are performing as well as they did as teenagers. 
Maybe we evolved as a hunting pack animal. 
Well if that's true, a couple other things had to be true as well. 
The key to being part of a hunting pack is the word pack. 
You need to have those 27-year-old studs at the peak of their powers ready to drop the kill, and you need to have those teenagers there who are learning the whole thing all involved. 
You can't be hauling all your crap around, trying to chase the antelope. 
He pissed me off. Let him go chase his own antelope. 
Geronimo used to say that, My only friends are my legs. I only trust my legs. 
That's because an Apache triathlon used to be you'd run 50 miles across the desert, engage in hand-to-hand combat, steal a bunch of horses and slap leather for home. 
I didn't do yoga. I'm not ready. 
So hopefully it's something we can all benefit from. 
I show a number of photographs and films, but I also make television programs, books and some advertising, all with the same concept. 
I was fascinated by this phenomenon, so I wondered: could one erase the image of Diana, actually quite crudely and physically? 
Momentum was being built. 
I then went on wondering whether I could actually replace her image, so I got a look-alike of Diana and posed her in the right positions and angles and created something that was in, or existed in, the public imagination. 
So, this is an image of Diana looking at Camilla kissing her husband, and this was a sequence of images. 
All this imagery was creating a lot of fuss and I was cited as a disgusting artist. The press were writing about this, giving full pages about how terrible this was. 
But then this changed suddenly. 
I was sitting next to someone at dinner the other day, and they were saying there's this great image of the Queen sitting outside William Hill. 
I explored with actually dressing up as the celebrities myself. 
And me as the Queen. 
I then continued on to make a whole body of work about Marilyn -- the biggest icon of all -- and trying to titillate by shooting through doorways and shutters and so on and so forth, and only showing certain angles to create a reality that, obviously, is completely constructed. 
I did an advertising campaign for Schweppes, which is Coca-Cola, and so that was very interesting in terms of the legalities. 
Tony Blair and Cherie. And again, the legalities -- we had to be very careful. 
And the press were interviewing, and I was signing my book. . 
And in fact, George Bush and Tony Blair are having great fun during all of this. 
So there was a lot of meaning in my life because I was performing this type of research during the day. 
My left hemisphere -- our left hemisphere -- is a very different place. 
Our left hemisphere is all about the past and it's all about the future. 
It's that ongoing brain chatter that connects me and my internal world to my external world. 
I become a single solid individual, separate from the energy flow around me and separate from you. 
And I looked down at my body and I thought, Whoa, I'm a weird-looking thing. And it was as though my consciousness had shifted away from my normal perception of reality, where I'm the person on the machine having the experience, to some esoteric space where I'm witnessing myself having this experience. 
I can't define where I begin and where I end, because the atoms and the molecules of my arm blended with the atoms and molecules of the wall. 
And then I would wait for what I call a wave of clarity. 
And so I say to him -- clear in my mind, I say to him: This is Jill! I need help! 
Nirvana. I found Nirvana. And I remember thinking, there's no way I would ever be able to squeeze the enormousness of myself back inside this tiny little body. 
Two and a half weeks after the hemorrhage, the surgeons went in and they removed a blood clot the size of a golf ball that was pushing on my language centers. 
I believe that the more time we spend choosing to run the deep inner-peace circuitry of our right hemispheres, the more peace we will project into the world, and the more peaceful our planet will be. 
In Africa -- where it is a major killer -- it is totally ignored. 
No, you will die. 50 percent will die within 24 hours, if not treated. 
If you cannot secure the parents, you cannot guarantee the security of the African child. 
These are just for information: hypertension, diabetes, obesity, lack of exercise. The usual suspects. 
So, they spend their money trying to fix those problems. 
So, for a radiopharmaceutical in the U.S. -- that you'll get a unit dose for 250 dollars -- when we're finished manufacturing it in-house, we come at a price of about two dollars. 
This is at the Heart Institute. The doctors from anywhere can log in. 
They'll give me that information, and we'll make the care of the patient better. 
Because if you can't get it in Nashville, you can travel to Birmingham, two hours away, and you'll get it. If you can't get it in Cleveland, you can go to Cincinnati. We don't have that luxury, so we have to make it happen. 
So, we emphasize training. Training is critical. 
Sharon Lazarus: I am an echocardiographer at the Heart Institute of the Caribbean, since the past two years. I received training at this institution. 
I think I'll start out and just talk a little bit about what exactly autism is. 
I'm really concerned that a lot of the schools have taken out the hands-on classes, because art, and classes like that, those are the classes where I excelled. 
I thought everybody thought in pictures. 
OK, there is my childhood church, that's specific. There's some more, Fort Collins. 
But one of the things that really worries me is: Where's the younger version of those kids going today? 
And then there's a verbal mind, they know every fact about everything. 
And I came in half an hour beforehand so I could have it put on and kind of get used to it, and they got it bent so it's not hitting my chin. 
Because think about it: An animal is a sensory-based thinker, not verbal -- thinks in pictures, thinks in sounds, thinks in smells. 
Are they friend or foe? Is there anybody he can go mate with? 
There's a ton of information on that fire hydrant. 
Now, this ability to put information into categories, I find a lot of people are not very good at this. 
I find a lot of people have difficulty doing that. 
Is it a minor problem, with something simple I can fix? 
Yeah, I'm a million-mile flyer. 
I do lots and lots of flying, and if I was at the FAA, what would I be doing a lot of direct observation of? 
It would be their airplane tails. 
I was a goofball student. When I was in high school I just didn't care at all about studying, until I had Mr. Carlock's science class. 
And they're not going down the right path. 
But you know what? I was getting work experience. 
In other words, use that fixation in order to motivate that kid, that's one of the things we need to do. 
The pattern thinkers, they're the ones that are going to be your mathematicians, your software engineers, your computer programmers, all of those kinds of jobs. 
Because the thing about being autistic is, I had to learn social skills like being in a play. 
I cannot emphasize enough what my science teacher did for me. 
Well, first of all, you've got to look at age. 
How many cattle got poked with the prodder? 
Temple, can I just say it's an absolute delight to have you at TED. 
Okay. 
Bye-bye. 
When they were a bunch of kids, they were kind of very imaginative, very adventurous, as they were trying at Caltech to mix chemicals and see which one blows up more. 
So, that's what we call our first five employees during the tea break, you know, in here. 
And that was done over a period of a couple of years, and now we are the leading organization, you know, exploring space on all of your behalf. 
But even when we did that, we had to remind ourselves, sometimes there are setbacks. 
But then also, just to celebrate that, we started an event at JPL for Miss Guided Missile. 
Maybe they're right - I doubt it. 
So, next time you are really depressed, look in the mirror and you can look and say, hi, I'm looking at a star here. 
So it is a dynamic planet, and activity is going on as we speak today. 
As I told you, geologists love craters. 
If you were there you wouldn't do it yourself. 
And that's what we found out. It turned out that every once in a while there are dust devils which come by on Mars, as you are seeing here, and when the dust devil comes over the Rover, it just cleans it up. 
Yeah! 
It's the first mission that's going to try to land near the North Pole of Mars, and it's the first mission that's actually going to try and reach out and touch water on the surface of another planet. 
The outside can get almost as hot as the surface of the Sun. 
The temperature of the heat shield can reach 2,600 degrees Fahrenheit. 
The fabric and the stitching could just pull apart. 
We kick them, we hit them, we drop them, just to make sure we understand how, where would they break. 
And I know many of you, kind of, last time afterwards said well, that was a cool thing to have -- those airbags. 
It's real stuff. 
So, the idea is, by watching Saturn we're actually watching our solar system in real time being formed on a smaller scale, so it's like a test bed for it. 
Now, you think that those rings are very large objects. 
That was [unclear] also -- you know, because we were worried about the risk of it, but it worked pretty well. 
So people believe now that Titan is most likely what we call a pre-biotic planet, because it's so cold organic material did not get to the stage of becoming biological material, and therefore life could have evolved on it. 
So here we have a cycle of a planet which is like our Earth, but is all made of ethane and methane and organic material. 
And being the current day, of course, we started our own Facebook group. 
Now why am I telling you this story, and what does this have to do with the future of health? 
What I'd like to talk about today is understanding these exponential technologies. 
And coming up next month is actually Future Med, a program to help cross-train and leverage technologies into medicine. 
These mobile phones have over 20,000 different mobile apps available -- to the point where there's one out of the U.K. 
Let's start with faster. 
We can look inside with real time fMRI -- in the brain at real time. 
The scan in a couple of years will be one terabyte, or 800,000 books. 
And now, of course, we're in the era of the iPad, even the iPad 2. 
The ability to interact with your health care provider is different. 
Consumers now can buy basically hundred-dollar devices, like this little FitBit. 
So a few examples: we're now in the era of Fantastic Voyage, the iPill. 
And this is really going to leverage technology to the rural and the under-served and enable what used to be thousand-dollar tests to be done at pennies and at the point of care. 
My data indicates that I've got about average risk for developing macular degeneration, a kind of blindness. 
I'm at almost twice the risk for Type II diabetes. 
It might change my behavior. 
We can capture that information. 
This has been called by Lee Hood, the father of the field, P4 medicine. 
How about more targeted therapies for cancer? 
Now I'll close with regenerative medicine. 
Geron, just last year, started the first trial using human embryonic stem cells to treat spinal cord injuries. 
Still a Phase I trial, but evolving. 
I thought I would read poems I have that relate to the subject of youth and age. 
My grandmother is washing my mouth out with soap; half a long century gone and still she comes at me with that thick cruel yellow bar. 
It's a longer poem. 
It's called The Neighbor. 
Her shadow once, fumbling the chain on her door, then the door slamming fearfully shut, only the barking and the music -- jazz -- filtering as it does, day and night into the hall. 
My thinking we'd meet, recognize one another, become friends, that I'd accomplish a penance. 
Sometimes there are frightening goings-on in the stairwell. 
Medea she was, next time I saw her. 
My holding the door. 
Instead, I'd step into my train. 
The dance of our glances, the clash, pulling each other through our perceptual punctures, then holocaust, holocaust, host on host of ill, injured presences, squandered, consumed. 
The dance of our glances, challenge, abdication, effacement, the perfume of our consternation. 
Forever. With grace. 
But I'm afraid that Ricky will come out here and shake his fist at me. 
Special: big tits, Says the advertisement for a soft-core magazine on our neighborhood newsstand. 
But forget her breasts. 
The display was a photo. Men and women stripped naked, some trying to cover their genitals, others too frightened to bother, lined up in snow waiting to be shot and thrown into a ditch. 
What carnal mistrust had their teacher taught them. 
The truth is that we know that the images themselves don't change the world, but we're also aware that, since the beginning of photography, images have provoked reactions in people, and those reactions have caused change to happen. 
It changed our view of the physical world. 
Some would argue that it is those images that did more to fuel the insurgency in Iraq than virtually any other single act. 
In fact, these images became the voices of protest themselves. 
I was the only human being in an area one-and-a-half times the size of America, five-and-a-half thousand square miles. 
Ben, I've read somewhere that at minus 40, exposed skin becomes frostbitten in less than a minute, so how do you answer the call of nature? 
Third one: how do you top that? What's next? 
I was 23 years old. No one my age had attempted anything like this, and pretty quickly, almost everything that could have gone wrong did go wrong. 
I had frostbite in my left big toe. 
You can just see -- there's a nine and a string of zeros here. 
I dialed three numbers. I dialed my mum. 
The -- the whole world underneath me. 
There are huge areas of open water just south of your position. 
Antarctica, if you include the ice shelves, is twice the size of Australia -- it's a big place. 
And they turned around, headed back to the coast, and all five of them died on the return journey. 
Where was this guilt trip coming from? 
There was one person in the group that was supposed to have very high performance that was actually performing terribly. 
And he pulled the whole mean down, destroying my statistical significance of the test. 
So I looked carefully at this guy. 
And I'm sure that it's something that we all recognize, and we see that it happens. 
And that's a much, much more difficult lesson to take into account. 
In my mind, I was actually a knight trying to help science move along. 
I mean, this is all very depressing, right -- people have conflicts of interest, we don't see it, and so on. 
This is actually a direct quote from an epidemiologist who's been in field of HIV for 15 years, worked on four continents, and you're looking at her. 
And so everyone lined up, all the smackheads in a row, and the guy whose birthday it was filled up the fit, and he went down and started injecting people. 
So his choice was either to accept that dirty needle or not to get high. 
So what's that about? Is it like you get a better high if you share or something? 
So she was making a politically rational decision. 
I've always been a bit curious about that because I think stigma is a bad thing, whereas lots of sex is quite a good thing, but we'll leave that be. 
Of course, you can't get HIV just by having unprotected sex. 
And, again, it's because of an alignment of the incentives. 
And, actually, clients don't want to go home with a drip either. 
He's from Haiti and he has AIDS. 
And the other thing is that people are simply not as scared of HIV as they were of AIDS, and rightly so. 
We've got the tools, the knowledge and the cash, and commitment to preventing HIV too. 
There are as many different ways of being rational as there are human beings on the planet, and that's one of the glories of human existence. 
Ten years ago exactly, I was in Afghanistan. 
Would you like to see civil war, sectarian killing? 
They found something called Facebook. 
This is what they were telling. This is their propaganda. 
And this is how the revolution was born in Tunisia. 
But we found that these people in the street, all of them are our reporters, feeding our newsroom with pictures, with videos and with news. 
We are going to be the voice for these voiceless people. 
Be aware of these people who [are] coming to you in order to ruin your great civilization. 
They have been detached from their people, from the masses, and now we are seeing them collapsing one after the other. 
I felt the responsibility to phone our correspondents there and to phone our newsroom and to tell them, Make your best not to switch off the cameras at night, because the guys there really feel confident when someone is reporting their story -- and they feel protected as well. 
We have a chance to go and to think of the future as something which is open to the world. 
Let us free ourselves -- especially in the West -- from thinking about that part of the world based on oil interest, or based on interests of the illusion of stability and security. 
Is this a story-of-the-year, a story-of-the-decade or something more? 
In my opinion, these people are much more wiser than, not only the political elite, even the intellectual elite, even opposition leaders including political parties. 
Thank you so much. 
And I'm going to have Michael Manring play bass with me. 
She got mad; I took a licking. 
Hey, hey, hey, hey. Hey, hey, black-eyed Susie, hey! 
One more time now. 
I fell in love with that. 
The Old Jack tales that he had learned -- he talked like this, you could hardly understand him. But it was really wonderful. 
It was hard on the cats, but it made a great little instrument. 
And if you don't know what you're doing, your hands are bleeding in no time. 
Good news: Chariot's coming. 
And I don't want it to leave me behind. 
Now, my mother hoped that we learned from that the value of hard work. 
No, we learned something else. 
The first thing I learned that day was that I never ever wanted to work that hard again. 
But that day in the cotton field out there picking, when those people started singing, I realized I was in the very heart of real music, and that's where I've wanted to be ever since. 
Good news: Chariot's coming. 
It was a few years ago, but I sort of remembered this story, and I told it at a concert. 
My mom was in the audience. 
I just wanted you boys to learn the value of hard work. 
And I don't want it to leave me behind. 
I just break off another bottleneck and play these steel guitar blues. 
They were about my age. 
It had three chemicals we were really surprised to see: sulfur, potassium nitrate and charcoal. 
We tore everything down and buried it in his backyard. 
We have about 120 million dollars, and we want to do it well. 
The first thing that anybody who knows science, and has been around science, is that the stuff you learn in school as a scientific method is wrong. There is no method. 
Im not going to read them all to you because Im not in teacher mode. 
And I want to talk about three stages in that evolution. 
In that year, we are not available for any of our clients. 
We are totally closed. 
Quite the similar idea, then, a perfume packaged in a book, in a die cut. 
I likely already look forward to the weekend on Thursdays. 
Europe and the U.S. didn't really feel enticing because I knew them too well. So Asia it was. 
So I looked for furniture. 
So one of the things that we pursued in Bali was pieces of furniture. 
And I think by the time this lamp came about,  I had finally made peace with those dogs. 
I also started meditating for the first time in my life in Bali. 
His latest numbers are fairly impressive. 
So I became my own intern. 
I had fun. 
Financially, seen over the long term, it was actually successful. 
We were asked to design an identity for Casa da Musica, the Rem Koolhaas-built music center in Porto, in Portugal. 
It has a more transparent identity. 
Some of you might have seen it. 
So after eight hours that's pretty much all that was left of the whole thing. 
So I'll just give you my message up front: Try not to go extinct. 
People ask me a lot -- in fact, one of the most asked questions I get is, why do children like dinosaurs so much? 
Every museum wanted a little bigger or better one than anybody else had. 
So everyone was out looking for all these bigger and better dinosaurs. 
And they thought about it and they even wrote papers about it: Where are the little dinosaurs? 
First off, scientists have egos, and scientists like to name dinosaurs. 
So this is where people went astray again. 
But I have a museum and I collect dinosaurs and I can saw mine open. 
And if you cut into an older dinosaur, it's very massive. 
So here's a dinosaur that has spikes sticking out of its head, no dome and gnarly stuff on its nose. 
Nobody noticed the gnarly stuff sort of looked alike. 
Dracorex is the littlest one, Stygimoloch is the middle size one, Pachycephalosaurus is the largest one. 
But it didn't give them a clue. 
So we have a whole bunch of them at our museum. 
And then as they grow older, the horns grow forward. 
If you look along the edge of the frill, they have these little triangular bones that actually grow big as triangles and then they flatten against the frill pretty much like the spikes do on the Pachycephalosaurs. 
And we get rid of Anatotitan. 
So again, real easy to say that Tyrannosaurus ontogeny included Nanotyrannus, and therefore we can take out another dinosaur. 
Now as you can imagine, this is not very popular with fourth-graders. 
This is Soft Sell for 42nd Street. 
They weren't doing their primary work, which was for the government, while they were helping us with this. 
And many musicians choose to use the theater glass walls totally open. 
Chamber and the notion of chamber has to do with salons and small-scale performances. They asked us to bring an intimacy. 
And this is a mockup that is in Salt Lake City that gives you a sense of what this is going to look like in full-scale. 
Chris has been so nice. 
So nice, all week. He's the kind of man you could say to, Chris, I'm really sorry, I've crashed your car. 
And you know that Chris would say, Thank you. 
Emmanuel? Absolutely.  
So, that's going to look pretty shabby now. 
So, what I thought I'd do is -- in honor of Emmanuel -- is, what I can do is to launch today the first TED Global auction. 
And he'll say, You're offering me things that are infinitely variable. 
And she's desperate to find more evidence for the link. 
This man has swum around the North Pole, what more evidence do you want? 
No.  
Alright, it was never exactly 'Brokeback Mountain.'  You know, I wrote to him, just before I left office. I said, 'Can I rely on your support for the next month?' And he wrote back. He said, 'No, you can't.' Which kind of surprised me, because I'd never seen 'can't' spelled that way before. 
When you think what's happened to financial services, and you see what's happened to the economy, you think, Well, there is a man who delivers on his promises. 
And, you know, Iceland, it was never going to cut it. 
Luckily, somebody like George Bush was really helpful. 
He summed it up, really, at a dinner. 
And then, you're now, well, actually, that's what this is about. 
Well, you know I'm sorry about that. 
And you want a leader who inspires and challenges and makes you want to be a better citizen. Right? 
So he comes over to this country, and he says, We need a big fiscal stimulus. 
He goes to Prague, he says, We believe in a nuclear-free world. 
Do you remember that? George Bush, A nu-ca-ler. 
... who said, reach out and touch ... 
So, Nelson, how would you like a nice water feature? 
And we need six to eight waist-high plants per person. 
And it has close to 1,200 such plants for 300 occupants. 
Our studies have found that there is a 42 percent probability of one's blood oxygen going up by one percent if one stays indoors in this building for 10 hours. 
And the study showed that, compared to other buildings, there is a reduced incidence of eye irritation by 52 percent, respiratory systems by 34 percent, headaches by 24 percent, lung impairment by 12 percent and asthma by nine percent. 
Why is this important? 
So how do you feel about that -- the whole -- MA: Well, it's pretty irritating actually because nobody ever describes what a man is wearing. 
And no guy ever gets criticized. But that's the least of it. 
How did you handle that balance between being the tough diplomatic and strong voice of this country to the rest of the world and also how you felt about yourself as a mother, a grandmother, nurturing ... 
and so how did you handle that? 
Because in her lifetime -- MA: That would be so. 
Thank you for joining us today. 
My little group of molecular programmers are trying to refashion all of these parts from DNA. 
And if you buy all of this, and you think life is about computation, as I do, then you look at big questions through the eyes of a computer scientist. 
This is exactly analogous to the question, what's the smallest program I can write that will act exactly like Microsoft Word? 
And just as he's writing, you know, bacteria that will be smaller, he's writing genomes that will work, we could write smaller programs that would do what Microsoft Word does. 
Now, these are big questions in computer science. 
That holds the long strand like this. 
I wanted to fold DNA into something that goes up over the eye, down the nose, up the nose, around the forehead, back down and end in a little loop like this. 
It's got a needle, like a record needle, that goes back and forth over the surface, bumps up and down, and feels the height of the first surface. 
She wrote all her own software to design and built this DNA origami, a beautiful rendition of China, which even has Taiwan, and you can see it's sort of on the world's shortest leash, right? 
Now, this is just a single switch and you need half a billion for a computer, so we have a long way to go. 
The DNA origami is a proof that that compiler actually works. 
The fact is that it does not scale. 
So now, we can use this counting to try and get at much bigger things than DNA origami could otherwise. 
You can just change a couple of the DNA strands in this binary representation and you'll get 96 rather than 32. 
Here is a DNA origami rectangle, and here are some tiles growing from it. 
So, it turns out we actually had this idea nine years ago, and that's about the time constant for how long it takes to do these kinds of things, so I think we made a lot of progress. 
We've got ideas about how to fix these errors. 
What it's really about is taking computer science and looking at big questions in a new light, asking new versions of those big questions and trying to understand how biology can make such amazing things. Thank you. 
Therefore, it would be too risky to release these animals, both for the released and for the natural populations. 
So, this is not new, people have been doing this around the world. 
So, these genes are indeed going back to the populations. 
So, I say, Let's study more, let's shed light on this issue, let's do whatever we can. 
This song kind of came out of all of that. 
We ended up being the first medical response team in every incident location and transported 125 victims, saving life. 
And the other is Moksha-Yug Access, which is integrating rural supply chain on the foundations of self-help group-based microfinance. 
Now I come back to the idea of the new social enterprise that I'm exploring. 
Often it is the constraining or the back-to-the-wall situation that the hapless common man finds himself or herself in that leads him to pay a bribe. 
Now, let me ask you another question. 
But you also don't have the time, resources, expertise or wherewithal to fight this. 
Like a bribe buster service, or 1-800-Fight-Bribes, or www.stopbribes.org or www.preventcorruption.org. 
I don't want to be haunted by such images any more. 
A set of people actually say, Oh, let me just grant it to them, and run away from it. 
But the one thing I want you to notice about them is this: even though this is a very long list, there isn't a single thing on it that involves other human beings. 
And yet, when some psychologists interviewed hospital janitors to get a sense of what they thought their jobs were like, they encountered Mike, who told them about how he stopped mopping the floor because Mr. Jones was out of his bed getting a little exercise, trying to build up his strength, walking slowly up and down the hall. 
And then there was Luke, who washed the floor in a comatose young man's room twice because the man's father, who had been keeping a vigil for six months, didn't see Luke do it the first time, and his father was angry. 
A wise person knows when and how to make the exception to every rule, as the janitors knew when to ignore the job duties in the service of other objectives. 
A wise person is like a jazz musician -- using the notes on the page, but dancing around them, inventing combinations that are appropriate for the situation and the people at hand. 
A wise person knows how to use these moral skills in the service of the right aims. 
Dad, being an academic, had no idea that Mike's Hard Lemonade contained alcohol. 
And they were ready to let the kid go. 
When things go wrong, as of course they do, we reach for two tools to try to fix them. 
Say 75 items in this script to teach a 25-page picture book. 
Scripts like these are insurance policies against disaster. 
Jazz musicians need some notes -- most of them need some notes on the page. 
We need more rules for the bankers, God knows. 
Some psychologists went around and polled citizens who were very well informed. 
They said, If we paid you six weeks' salary every year would you be willing to have a nuclear waste dump in your community? 
We see this in medicine. 
I don't know how many of you remember this: another moral hero, 15 years ago, Aaron Feuerstein, who was the head of Malden Mills in Massachusetts -- they made Polartec -- The factory burned down. 
And a bonus he's discovering is he's actually going to make even more money. 
In many ways this is the perfect example. 
So there's a lot here at TED, and at other places, to celebrate. 
There are ordinary heroes. 
Even the wisest and most well-meaning people will give up if they have to swim against the current in the organizations in which they work. 
And any moral work depends upon practical wisdom. 
I think there is reason for hope. 
Thank you. 
A few years ago I was visited by the guy that runs DARPA, the people that fund all the advanced technologies that businesses and universities probably wouldn't take the risk of doing. 
Now we've got F18s and F22s, and if somebody loses an arm, we give them a plastic stick with a hook on it. 
If it's the raisin, they won't drop it. 
I told them they're nuts. 
It will take the other nine to make it functional and useful. 
I went back and I started putting a team together, the best guys I could find with a passion to do this. 
We walked into Walter Reed and I could not have been more wrong. 
I can give you fast control with low reduction ratios in these gears, or I can give you power; I can't give you both. 
I lost my right arm, but I'm a lefty. 
So, we went back. 
So, we went back, and we've been working harder yet. 
And he was there, and they said we needed to come. 
He's got no arms. 
Who is going to pay for it? 
Those are tough questions. 
I don't know the answers. 
What do we need to do? There's very polarized answers to that question too, and I don't have any answers to that. 
I think eventually we'll make these things extraordinary. 
And whining and complaining about what our foreign policy ought to be. 
And we ought to give it to them. 
That one was way more difficult than I had expected. 
When the rescue workers came they resuscitated him and there was no brain damage. 
So, I took that as a challenge, basically. 
And I stayed inside of that water tank hoping my core temperature would start to drop. 
So, I realized that was completely not going to work. 
So, I went to talk to a doctor friend, and I asked him how could I do that? 
Then I actually started thinking about liquid breathing. 
You blow in and out ... 
And you're really ridding your body of CO2. 
And his total lung capacity is twice the size of an average person. 
I had to drop 50 pounds in three months. 
Every bit of food was exactly what it was for its nutritional value. 
And I started to really adapt my body. 
I assumed that I could put a water tank at Lincoln center and if I stayed there a week not eating, I would get comfortable in that situation and I would slow my metabolism, which I was sure would help me hold my breath longer than I had been able to do it. 
And I thought everything seemed to be on track. 
And by seven minutes I had gone into these awful convulsions. 
This was a different record. This was a pure O2 static apnea record that Guinness had set the world record at 13 minutes. 
A hypoxic tent is a tent that simulates altitude at 15,000 feet. 
But for TV they wanted me to be upright so they could see my face, basically. 
That made me extremely nervous, raising the heart rate. 
And there is no way to slow my heart rate down. 
And I started having ischemia to the heart. 
My heartbeat would go from 120, to 50, to 150, to 40, to 20, to 150 again. 
So, I let my feet out, and I started floating to the top. 
They had doctors with the Pst, you know, so, sitting there waiting. 
As a magician I try to show things to people that seem impossible. 
And then he stopped. Walking in front of him was her. 
Sure, she had aged a little. 
Gusty entered her boldly and made love to her rhythmically while she filmed him, because she was a keen amateur pornographer. 
And that provides the ground for a type of action, because consensus of each moment allows us to act. 
We have three critical terms: economy, civil society and the state. 
We propose 10. 
The least important form of capital, in this project, is financial capital -- money. 
Now, the issue that should concern us here -- and that's the challenge that I would like to pose to this group -- is again, it takes 16 years in your countries to produce somebody with a B.S. degree. 
Every conceivable form of infrastructure had broken down. 
So, when violence erupts in a country like Afghanistan, it's because of that legacy. 
Look, there's a very little known fact: countries that have a legal average income per capita of 1,000 dollars don't produce drugs. 
Cotton does not compete with opium; a t-shirt does. 
I'm all for it; after all, I raised a lot of it. 
And then I'll let you in on a secret, which is why I am an incurable optimist. 
Well, it's been calculated a few degrees' rise in the earth's temperature would melt the polar ice caps. 
And the trends for those who are at the periphery of our society, who are the poorest and the most vulnerable, the trends give rise to a great case for pessimism. 
It will cause rising seas. It will cause saline deposited into wells and into lands. 
For some, it will lead to anger, religious and sectarian violence and terrorism. 
A minimum of 20 to 30 inches of increase in sea levels is the best case that we can hope for, and it could be 10 times that. 
Enough of the bad news. Human beings have always risen to the challenge. 
20 years ago, there were three and a half million. 
This disease is called sudden wealth syndrome.  
All throughout the technology world, we're seeing young people bitten by this disease of sudden wealth syndrome. 
More reasons to be optimistic: in the '60s, and I am a creature of the '60s, there was a movement. 
And on July 7th, around the world, I learned only yesterday, there will be global Live Earth concerts. 
Now, that doesn't mean that people understand that global warming hurts the poorest and the weakest the most. 
We visited every house in India, searching for smallpox -- 120 million houses, once every month, for nearly two years. 
Thank you very much. 
In the history of our planet, there have been three great waves of evolution. 
But we had to do it the hard way in the old days by choosing offspring that looked a particular way and then breeding them. 
The scientists that made this cute little creature ended up slaughtering it and eating it afterwards. 
A cama is a camel-llama hybrid, created to try to get the hardiness of a camel with some of the personality traits of a llama. 
They did it with puppies. 
And so some states have decided to allow them, some states have decided to ban them. 
And before you get too worried about it, here in the United States, the majority of food you buy in the supermarket already has genetically-modified components to it. 
This is Prometea, the first cloned horse. 
These were the first cloned calves, the first cloned grey wolves, and then, finally, the first cloned piglets: Alexis, Chista, Carrel, Janie and Dotcom. 
This is the use of animals now to create drugs and other things in their bodies that we want to create. 
These are two creatures that were created in order to save endangered species. 
And now, using a joystick, they can send this creature around the lab and control whether it goes left or right, forwards or backwards. 
We've taken away the autonomy of this animal. 
And he used that as the IT piece of a mechanism which ran a flight simulator. 
I don't know, but in fact it is a fully living brain that we have managed to keep alive to do our bidding. 
This is a mouse created by Charles Vacanti of the University of Massachusetts. 
This is what Frankenstein's lab looks like. 
We are not only already using these things in animals, some of them we're already beginning to use on our own bodies. 
He was raised by very supportive and interested parents. 
And the observations that he made on that epic journey were to be eventually distilled into his wonderful book, On the Origin of Species, published 150 years ago. 
Now what is so interesting and to some, the extent, what's a bit infamous about The Origin of Species, is that there is only one line in it about human evolution. 
If only Darwin had NASA. 
This has tremendous implications for our understanding of the evolution of human skin pigmentation. 
And that skin pigmentation itself was a product of evolution. 
So, living at the equator, we got lots and lots of ultraviolet radiation and the melanin -- this wonderful, complex, ancient polymer compound in our skin -- served as a superb natural sunscreen. 
Major moves, outside of our equatorial homeland, from Africa into other parts of the Old World, and most recently, into the New World. 
But it's all UVA, and, significantly, that UVA has no ability to make vitamin D in your skin. 
Humans have been on the move for a long time. 
Here are just some of the biggest movements of people, voluntary movements, in the last 5,000 years. 
And not all these moves were voluntary. 
Evolution helps us. 
But we need to think about how he compares, in terms of his pigmentation, to other people on Earth. 
They also run the risk of vitamin D deficiency, if they have desk jobs, like that guy. 
Darwin, I think, would have appreciated this, even though he eschewed the importance of climate on the evolution of pigmentation during his own life. 
Well, the topic I'm going to discuss is one which is, in a certain sense, very peculiar because it's very old. 
Now why do I show a cauliflower, a very ordinary and ancient vegetable? 
If you try to weigh it -- of course it's very easy to weigh it, and when you eat it, the weight matters -- but suppose you try to measure its surface. 
If you cut, with a sharp knife, one of the florets of a cauliflower and look at it separately, you think of a whole cauliflower, but smaller. 
Now, what did humanity do with that? 
Well, surprisingly enough, it's good in many ways. 
It used to be very time-consuming, but now it's nothing. 
Anatomists were arguing very much about that. 
This cloud is completely, 100 percent artificial. 
And the only part which is natural is a number, the roughness of the cloud, which is taken from nature. 
Mathematicians got into self-praise to an extent which was absolutely amazing, that man can invent things that nature did not know. 
In particular, it could invent things like a curve which fills the plane. 
I read the book that Mr. Eiffel wrote about his tower, and indeed it was astonishing how much he understood. 
Then I was telling my assistant, I don't see anything. Can you paint it? 
It was very easy, and you can write many books very fast about it. 
In a way, it's the story of my life. 
If you could find something new, anything, you will get your career made. 
It's so complicated. 
Obviously, from extraterrestrials. 
Thank you very much. 
In 1984, in what can only be considered one of the greatest crimes of humanity, nearly one million people died of starvation in my country of birth, Ethiopia. 
Not because there was not enough food -- because there was actually a surplus of food in the fertile regions of the south parts of the country -- but because in the north, people could not access or entitle themselves to that food. 
Most Africans today, by far, are farmers. 
It also has very high cost implications. 
Speaking of risk, we have seen that price volatility of food crops in Africa is the highest in the world. 
In the American Midwest, farmers used to load grain onto barges and send it upriver to the Chicago market. 
What's really important is that the ECX will operate a market information system to disseminate prices in real time to farmers around the country, using VSAT technology to bring an electronic price dissemination directly to farmers. 
And they come to the market knowing what grades their products will achieve in terms of a price premium. 
We believe that the winds of change are here, and that we can do it. 
We believe that the stakes are high, but that the returns will be even greater. 
Ethiopia's agricultural market is 30 percent higher than South Africa's grain production, and, in fact, Ethiopia is the second largest maize producer in Africa. 
It's a bit funny to be at a conference dedicated to things not seen, and present my proposal to build a 6,000-kilometer-long wall across the entire African continent. 
The threat is desertification. 
It is always the same, never the same, endlessly fascinating. 
One billion grains of sand come into existence in the world each second. 
Just south of the Sahara we find the Sahel. 
Now there is an alternative to just planting trees and hoping that they won't get chopped down. 
Inside of the dunes we find shade. 
Here I am, playing the part of the mad scientist, working with the bugs at UCL in London, trying to solidify them. 
Well, I was inspired, for my architectural form, by tafoni, which look a little bit like this, this is a model representation of it. 
These are cavernous rock structures that I found on the site in Sokoto. 
That's not true at all. 
So, there it is -- architectural anti-desertification structures made from the desert itself. 
My design, as it takes you down the rabbit hole, is fraught with many challenges and difficulties in the real world. 
Our goal is a repository of published designs so clear, so complete, that a single burned DVD is effectively a civilization starter kit. 
He was talking about the space aliens. 
I have never built an atomic pile. 
Think about it. 
I was pretty good at the video games. I was not very good at the other part, so I stayed alone with the cosmos. 
Now, you could describe this as a simple misunderstanding -- a strange encounter among humans. 
I went with my friend Tim McGonigal, who sat on my left. 
I remember, she had some sort of injury to her ankle, an Ace bandage, and she had crutches. 
I was starting high school at the time. I would say she was a junior, but I had never seen her before. She didn't go to my school. 
I mean, I liked him a lot better than the sandworms. 
Except for the girl. 
And the way I remember it, the movie featured these details. 
But I was exhausted and dog-bitten, and so I said, No. 
I realized that the day would only have two possible outcomes: either Catherine would come back to the hotel, or she would never come back to the hotel. 
But he did not seem so very sure, for he sat down to wait with me. 
I mean, somebody pays you to go around and travel and look at some of the most beautiful places on the planet. 
We know that hurricanes have always happened in the past. 
We hear a lot about the collapse of cod. 
It's a little hard to understand that, because you can go to a Costco in the United States and buy cheap fish. 
The trophy fish were so big that you couldn't put any of those small fish up on it. 
And people paid less in 1950 dollars to catch that than what people pay now to catch those little, tiny fish. 
You can see the rows in the bottom, the way you can see the rows in a field that has just been plowed to plant corn. 
It was when I was on holiday last early autumn in France. 
This is from the coast of Brittany, which is being enveloped in this green, algal slime. 
The governments of the world are taking this really seriously. 
The consequence of that is that all those nutrients that fuel the great anchoveta fisheries, of the sardines of California or in Peru or whatever, those slow down and those fisheries collapse. 
Now I haven't got anything against efficiency. 
In the world I describe to you, we have to be right over here at the right-hand side at six grams of carbon. 
So I want to just spend a couple of minutes on system dynamics. 
So it looks a little bit like this. 
That's called the circular flow of the economy. 
They want to hunker down, they want to look to the future. 
Are we these novelty-seeking, hedonistic, selfish individuals? 
It is about allowing ourselves the freedom to become fully human, recognizing the depth and the breadth of the human psyche and building institutions to protect Rembrandt's fragile altruist within. 
And we're going to do it. 
We're just going to click on Naturejobs.uk. 
And this too requires investment, investment -- for example, in places -- places where we can connect, places where we can participate, shared spaces, concert halls, gardens, public parks, libraries, museums, quiet centers, places of joy and celebration, places of tranquility and contemplation, sites for the cultivation of a common citizenship, in Michael Sandel's lovely phrase. 
Chris Anderson: While they're taking the podium away, just a quick question. 
You're making news out of the things that tell you that we're flourishing. 
But it has to have political leadership. 
The napalm is burning there quite nicely. 
Oil doesn't sink, it floats. 
And the other thing it does is it spreads out the moment it hits the water. 
It triples the amount of oily, messy goo that you have in the water, and it makes it very hard to handle. 
When the chemistry of the oil and water also hits our politics, it's absolutely explosive. 
They have a eureka! moment, when we suddenly understand oil in a different context. 
You might notice that many gas pumps, including this one, are designed to look like ATMs. 
Early journalists looked at these spills, and they said, This is a filthy industry. 
And the thing about John D. is that he went into this chaotic wild-east of oil industry, and he rationalized it into a vertically integrated company, a multinational. 
And then there's this guy, okay. 
So the thing about water oil spills is that they are very politically galvanizing. 
They really influence people. 
Everything that we are really stemmed from this period. 
One of the things that happened with the two previous oil spills was that we really worked on some of the symptoms. 
And these guys, I mean, if they were in the U.S., they might be actually here in this room. 
And then the guy in the Exxon uniform stepped out, and we realized it was okay. 
So, what I'm going to talk to you about now is: what do we have to do this time? 
We need to kind of get down and do the gritty work of reducing our dependence upon this fuel and these molecules. 
Cynthia Schneider: These programs are reaching incredibly deeply into society. 
People become so engaged that they have volunteers, just like political volunteers anyway, who fan out over the countryside, campaigning for their candidate. 
One of them, Lima Sahar, is a Pashtun from Kandahar, a very conservative part of the country. 
It turns out that competition and winning is a universal human value. 
And then a thought came across my mind: if things go pear-shaped on this swim, how long will it take for my frozen body to sink the four and a half kilometers to the bottom of the ocean? 
Nearly two billion people -- so one in three people on this earth -- rely on the water from the Himalayas. 
I carried on for another five or six strokes, and then I had nothing in my body, and I went down to the bottom of the lake. 
It is the most frightening and panicky feeling that you can have. 
And there, we sat down, and we did a debrief about what had gone wrong there on Mt. Everest. 
Take some time to rest and think about things. 
I say, I do hardware, because it sort of conveniently encompasses everything I do. 
So, this talk is going to be about how do we make things and what are the new ways that we're going to make things in the future. 
And I was laughing about this with the very smart colleagues I have, and said, You know, well, if I have to talk about the future, what is it? 
Literally, think of proteins as subroutines that you can string together to execute a program. 
And this is being built by a group of students at Zurich for a design competition in biology. 
Took me six years at MIT, and about that many pages to describe what I was doing, and it took him one page. And so this is our muse Tucker. 
And the ribosome here is another little computer that helps in the translation of the proteins. 
These are little mechanical computers. 
These are five-state state machines. 
In a neutral state, they won't bind at all. 
So now I'm going to show you the hands-free, autonomous self-replication. 
So, Neil Gershenfeld showed you this video on Wednesday, I believe, but I'll show you again. 
And how do we think about materials and structure, sort of as an information and computation problem? 
This is a machine where you literally define a boundary condition. 
We will be an overwhelmingly urban species. 
And the correlation, of course, is that denser places tend to have lower emissions -- which isn't really all that difficult to figure out, if you think about it. 
And we're basically using mobility to get the access we need. 
And it is possible, of course, to increase the density of the communities around us. 
Do they even take the very waste matter that we have from food and fiber and so forth, and turn it back into soil and sequester carbon -- take carbon out of the air in the process of using our cities? 
Because right now, our economy by and large operates as Paul Hawken said, by stealing the future, selling it in the present and calling it GDP. 
President Clinton, if you're here, thank you. 
Well, why has violence declined? No one really knows, but I have read four explanations, all of which, I think, have some grain of plausibility. The first is, maybe Thomas Hobbes got it right. He was the one who said that life in a state of nature was solitary, poor, nasty, brutish and short. Not because, he argued, humans have some primordial thirst for blood or aggressive instinct or territorial imperative, but because of the logic of anarchy. In a state of anarchy, there's a constant temptation to invade your neighbors preemptively, before they invade you. More recently, Thomas Schelling gives the analogy of a homeowner who hears a rustling in the basement. Being a good American, he has a pistol in the nightstand, pulls out his gun, and walks down the stairs. 
It removes the need for a hair trigger for retaliation to make your deterrent threat credible. And therefore, it would lead to a state of peace. Eisner -- the man who plotted the homicide rates that you failed to see in the earlier slide -- argued that the timing of the decline of homicide in Europe coincided with the rise of centralized states. 
This was an argument from the political scientist James Payne. 
Because we have been doing something right, and it sure would be good to find out what it is. 
We learned it in college. 
We have Liberia. We have Congo. 
Income per person. I can put that here. 
That's why we are so scared about flu, isn't it? 
And especially, it's interesting to see China and the United States during 200 years, because I have my oldest son now working for Google, after Google acquired this software. 
Mao Tse-Tung eventually brought health to China, and then he died, and then Deng Xiaoping started this amazing move forward. 
And I come now, into projections, but I have to stop at the door of Lehman Brothers there, you know, because --  that's where the projections are not valid any longer. 
East Europe, Latin America, and OECD countries. 
It's Lincoln here, advancing them. 
And we have countries all this way. 
And what has happened in the world? 
We used to boast about fast social progress. 
That's where we were, 1900. 
And you can see it's not that easy, that it is war which caused this. 
And here, in Zambia, there is peace. 
If I split Tanzania in its income, the richer 20 percent in Tanzania has more HIV than the poorest one. 
And it's really different within each country. 
It's similar to the pellagra epidemic in Mississippi in the '30s. 
We have seen it here in Mozambique. 
That used to be the illegal diamond trade, from the UNITA-dominated area in Angola. 
Don't get confused of the progress of the emerging economies and the great capacity of people in the middle income countries and in peaceful low income countries. 
I am a reformed marketer, and I now work in international development. 
He said there's just not in demand. 
And as a marketer, I found that curious. 
And it turns out that there are three main messages used by the donor agencies for these condoms: fear, financing and fidelity. 
They package it with the red ribbon that reminds us of HIV, put it in boxes that remind you who paid for them, show pictures of your wife or husband and tell you to protect them or to act prudently. 
And so the lesson is this: it doesn't really matter what you're selling; you just have to think about who is your customer, and what are the messages that are going to get them to change their behavior. 
It was before the avian flu had reached Europe. 
I'll see what I can do. OK? 
Generations go by, somebody says, hey, why don't we put it on a stick? 
Just absolutely delights the little ones. 
Point is: there's obviously collaboration and organization going on beyond national bounds. 
A lot of forms of non-zero-sum behavior in the realm of economics and so on in everyday life often leads to cooperation. 
Now, this sounds like an intrinsically upbeat worldview in a way, because when you think of non-zero, you think win-win, you know, that's good. Well, there are a few reasons that actually it's not intrinsically upbeat. 
I have a whole global governance sermon that I will spare you right now, because I don't think that's going to be enough anyway, although it's essential. 
That is to say --  -- thank you, thank you. That is to say, remember: my whole view of morality is that it boils down to self-interest. 
Doing the best I can, OK. 
It was kind of along these lines, and the allegation was that I have, quote, affection for terrorists. 
And a kind of saving higher moral level, something that kind of literally saves the world. 
Yahweh is our Savior means He has saved the nation of Israel, which at the time, was a pretty high-level social organization. 
I am very, very happy to be amidst some of the most -- the lights are really disturbing my eyes and they're reflecting on my glasses. 
Because despair, civil war, hunger and famine, although they're part and parcel of our African reality, they are not the only reality. 
But they also succeed at the job of entrepreneurship. 
Support private investment in Africa, both domestic and foreign. 
Which country is that? 
The productive margin in our governments' search for revenue does not lie in the domestic economy, it lies with international donors. 
The IMF, the World Bank, and the cartel of good intentions in the world has taken over our rights as citizens, and therefore what our governments are doing, because they depend on aid, is to listen to international creditors rather than their own citizens. 
They talk to international donors. 
Where has all the aid gone? 
Uganda's recurrent expenditure -- by recurrent what do I mean? 
The editor of Discover told us 10 of them, I'm going to give you the eleventh. 
So they came to me -- CNN -- and they said, Professor Seligman, would you tell us about the state of psychology today? 
Look, Doctor Seligman, we can see you're really not comfortable in this medium. 
Not good enough. And that's what I'm going to be talking about. 
It should be just as concerned with building strength as with repairing damage. 
And starting about six years ago, we asked about extremely happy people. 
That's what Aristotle was talking about. 
The first life is the pleasant life and it's simply, as best we can find it, it's having as many of the pleasures as you can, as much positive emotion as you can, and learning the skills -- savoring, mindfulness -- that amplify them, that stretch them over time and space. 
In two of the three great arenas of life, by the time Len was 30, Len was enormously successful. The first arena was work. 
It turned out that -- Len grew up in Long Island and he played football and watched football, and played bridge -- Len is in the bottom five percent of what we call positive affectivities. 
When he walks onto the floor of the American Exchange at 9:30 in the morning, time stops for him. And it stops till the closing bell. 
And we think there's a recipe for it, and it's knowing what your highest strengths are. 
Just one example. One person I worked with was a bagger at Genuardi's. 
Her highest strength was social intelligence, so she re-crafted bagging to make the encounter with her the social highlight of every customer's day. 
Now obviously she failed. 
What you get out of that is not smiley-ness. 
I'd like you to remember someone who did something enormously important that changed your life in a good direction, and who you never properly thanked. 
I hope all of you have such a person. 
But they were empty. 
And so, the parallel thing holds with technology, entertainment and design, I believe. 
So in conclusion, the eleventh reason for optimism, in addition to the space elevator, is that I think with technology, entertainment and design, we can actually increase the amount of tonnage of human happiness on the planet. 
And if technology can, in the next decade or two, increase the pleasant life, the good life and the meaningful life, it will be good enough. 
Here's an example. 
Four years ago, I was at the beach with my son, and he was learning how to swim in this relatively soft surf of the Delaware beaches. 
So, this represents -- this is a cross-sample of some remarkable images taken by some of the world's greatest photojournalists, working at the very top of their craft -- except one. 
But to be a great photojournalist, you have to have more than just one or two great photographs in you. 
But the centerpiece species of Zakouma are the elephants. 
And instead, created a story that touched our audiences deeply. 
Instead of just knowledge of this park, he created an understanding and an empathy for the elephants, the rangers and the many issues surrounding human-wildlife conflicts. 
He saw that this was a living and breathing and vital part of how the entire urban area functioned. 
We also want to look for solutions. 
Jim took what could have been a straight-up medical science story and gave it a human dimension that touched our readers deeply. 
But there are also times when photographers simply encounter things that are, when it comes down to it, just plain fun. 
Thank you. 
And my father was a soldier, and my uncle was a fisherman and also a poacher. 
For three times, I applied to biomedical science, to be a doctor. 
With the end of the dictatorship regime of Mobutu Sese Seko, that most of you know, life became very, very difficult. 
So they started fleeing from the east to the west. 
All my friends said, we are leaving because we are a target. 
But I'm not going to the east, because I don't know Swahili. 
Because he's Pygmy, he knows how to track elephants in the forest. 
They came to told me, I have to save him. 
Everywhere there has been constant extraction of mineral, killing animals, the logging timbers and so on. 
That is Coltan extraction, gold mining. 
We have to do it, because to let our movement advance. 
After a week, we celebrated the birthday of that Okapi, they killed an elephant, just 50 meters to the area where the zoo, where Okapi was born. 
I devoted half of it to rebuild the herbarium, because we didn't have good infrastructure to start plants. 
But is gun industries a tool to rebuild, or is it a game? 
And they can't go even to university. 
Thank you, thank you. 
One of the biggest challenges in computer graphics has been being able to create a photo-real, digital human face. 
And one of the reasons it is so difficult is that, unlike aliens and dinosaurs, we look at human faces every day. 
We shoot all of these photographs in about three seconds. 
If we zoom in on this photograph right here, we can see it's a really nice photograph to have of her, because she is lit from absolutely everywhere at the same time to get a nice image of her facial texture. 
We're just seeing the coarse-scale geometry here. 
And thank you very much. 
We're roughly two days from the entrance at that point. 
Otherwise it is completely dark in these places. 
Next year I'll be leading an international team to J2. 
This is one of the places where planetary scientists believe there is a highest probability of the detection of the first life off earth in the ocean that exists below there. 
It's basically a nuclear-heated torpedo. 
One is, how do you do science autonomy underground? 
How do you take a robot and turn it into a field microbiologist? 
If it passes the microscopic test, we go for a collection. 
No hands at the wheel. 
This is all behavioral autonomy here that's being conducted by the robot on its own. 
That's more than you pay for TED, if Google dropped their sponsorship. 
There is a place where you can. 
If we're going to get that, and make that gas station possible, we have to figure out ways to move large volumes of payload through space. 
It has never been done. 
I like this equipment, you know, and I really value it so we're not going to burn the gear. 
And I'm gonna try and do that within the 18-minute time span that we were told to stay within, and to follow the TED commandments: that is, actually, something that creates a near-death experience, but near-death is good for creativity. 
I think that part of it also begins with a sense of identity crisis: you know, who am I, why am I this particular person, why am I not black like everybody else? 
I used to draw. I thought I would be an artist. 
And when you are faced with the prospect of death very soon, you begin to think very much about everything. 
So, in quantum mechanics, of course, you have dark energy and dark matter. 
And that's what I look for in my work, a personal meaning. 
And they also have to make a living, and people need to be fed. 
It may be something that is perhaps more serious -- as I said, human rights in Burma. 
This leads to this question. 
In this case, I was writing a story that included some kind of detail, period of history, a certain location. 
Especially when good things happen, and, in particular, when bad things happen. 
But I do think there's a kind of serendipity, and I do want to know what those elements are, so I can thank them, and also try to find them in my life. 
Is it because I had the filter that I have such a strong coincidence in writing about these things? 
It takes a while, but I have to let go of them and just go there, and be there. 
And the reason is that until Wonder came along and figured out how to spread the idea of sliced bread, no one wanted it. 
And when I talk about it I usually pick business because they make the best pictures that you can put in your presentation, and because it's the easiest sort of way to keep score. 
Well, this TV-industrial complex informed my entire childhood and probably yours. 
And I ignored every message because I don't have a pain reliever problem. 
I buy the stuff in the yellow box because I always have. 
Consumers don't care about you at all; they just don't care. 
Because people saw it and said -- I didn't know that was there -- and they noticed it. 
And the thing is, people in the fashion business know what it's like to be in the fashion business -- they're used to it. 
The rest of us have to figure out how to think that way. 
How to understand that it's not about interrupting people with big full-page ads, or insisting on meetings with people. 
He lived in Paris. Last year he sold 10 million dollars' worth of French bread. 
It was neat; it was remarkable; and slowly it spread from one person to another person until finally, it became the official bread of three-star restaurants in Paris. 
They would ignore the geeks, and God forbid, the laggards. 
To make a product, to market an idea, to come up with any problem you want to solve that doesn't have a constituency with an otaku, is almost impossible. 
Krispy Kreme has a strategy, and what they do is, they enter a city, they talk to the people with otaku, and then they spread through the city to the people who've just crossed the street. 
They're made from cremains. 
Oh, you like my ring? It's my grandmother. 
Fastest-growing business in the whole mortuary industry. 
The first one is: Design is free when you get to scale. 
And the people who come up with stuff that's remarkable more often than not figure out how to put design to work for them. 
Silk. Put a product that does not need to be in the refrigerated section next to the milk in the refrigerated section. 
For the people who were there and looking at that section, it was remarkable. 
And I wanted to tell stories about all the amazing things I was seeing underwater, incredible wildlife and interesting behaviors. 
And the ice that is there is quite thin. 
These are the tuna, the billfish and the sharks. 
But the truth is we're way too efficient at catching them, and their stocks have collapsed worldwide. 
So this is the true cost of a shrimp dinner, maybe seven or eight shrimp and 10 pounds of other animals that had to die in the process. 
I also wanted to focus on the shark fishing industry because, currently on planet Earth, we're killing over 100 million sharks every single year. 
But before I went out to photograph this component, I sort of wrestled with the notion of how do you make a picture of a dead shark that will resonate with readers You know, I think there's still a lot of people out there who think the only good shark is a dead shark. 
One of the locations was this place called Tiger Beach, in the northern Bahamas where tiger sharks aggregate in shallow water. 
I also searched on this story for the elusive great hammerhead, an animal that really hadn't been photographed much until maybe about seven or 10 years ago. 
But this is crucial habitat and it's where they spend the first two, three years of their lives, until they're big enough to go out on the rest of the reef. 
I actually jumped in and photographed this, and with the fisherman's permission, I cut the turtle out, and it was able to swim free. 
But, you know, thousands of other leatherbacks each year are not so fortunate, and the species' future is in great danger. 
You can see the coal burning plant in the background. 
I went down there in the winter time. 
And these are animals that had never seen humans before, and I was one of the first people they probably had ever seen. 
For example, they hoped that certain species of fish like the New Zealand snapper would return because they had been fished to the brink of commercial extinction. 
But when the fish came back and began predating and controlling the urchin population, low and behold, kelp forests emerged in shallow water. 
And that's because the urchins eat kelp. 
Little blue cod swimming in for a dash of color. 
The ocean is, indeed, resilient and tolerant to a point, but we must be good custodians. 
But I'm moving past Malthus, because I think that we just might be about 150 years from a kind of new enlightenment. 
And the world's population expected to top out at something hopefully a bit less than 10 billion, late this century. 
But look what happened in Europe after the plague: rising wages, land reform, technological innovation, birth of the middle class; and after that, forward-looking social movements like the Renaissance, and later the Enlightenment. 
Because transitions are dangerous times. 
Fear for the future leads to some rash decisions. 
I was walking in the market one day with my wife, and somebody stuck a cage in my face. 
So we're in East Borneo. This is the place where I started. 
What we did was we formulated recipes -- how to go from a starting situation where you have nothing to a target situation. 
And once the soil gets dried, you're in a dry season -- you get cracks, oxygen goes in, flames come out and the problem starts all over again. 
This is what it looked like for three months. 
We lost all the crops. No children gained weight for over a year; they lost 12 IQ points. It was a disaster for orangutans and people. 
That was why I put it as a single point up there. 
You need the bacteria to fix nitrogen, and without those microorganisms, you won't have any performance at all. 
And we have monitored every single one of those trees from space. 
In the beginning, maybe pineapples and beans and corn; in the second phase, there will be bananas and papayas; later on, there will be chocolate and chilies. 
And that's green. If you look from the tower -- this is when we start attacking the grass. 
Air humidity is up 10 percent. 
Each of the families that have sold their land now get a piece of land back. 
If one member trespasses the agreement, and does cut down trees, the other 19 members have to decide what's going to happen to him. 
In North Sulawesi it is the cooperative -- they have a democratic culture there, so there you can use the local justice system to protect your system. 
They can now sell part of those fruits to the orangutan project. 
Now I think the real key to doing it, to give a simple answer, is integration. 
There's no matter of scale. It's not a question of scale, it's not a question of financial resources. 
And most of the people are leaving the city and living outside of the city. 
He is invited for a party -- he never wants to leave. 
He's a very demanding person. 
Parks -- old quarries that they were transformed into parks. 
So, in a city, you have to work fast. 
And we cannot have all the answers. 
You see, he's right. 
He said, There are two types of people in this world: those who divide the world into two types and those who do not. 
If you said to them, Don't do this anymore, they'd wonder what you were talking about. 
You have to create the circumstances where they show themselves. 
It means challenging what we take for granted, things that we think are obvious. 
He said this in December 1862 to the second annual meeting of Congress. 
I ought to explain that I have no idea what was happening at the time. 
So, no doubt, something fascinating was happening in December 1862, which the Americans among us will be aware of. 
You know what it means? 
But our minds are still hypnotized by them, and we have to disenthrall ourselves of some of them. 
Teenagers do not wear wristwatches. 
She doesn't see the point. 
It has multiple functions. 
Everybody who's spoken at TED has told us implicitly, or sometimes explicitly, a different story: that life is not linear; it's organic. 
I don't mean you shouldn't go to college, but not everybody needs to go and not everybody needs to go now. 
You know, to me, human communities depend upon a diversity of talent, not a singular conception of ability. 
Kids sitting in front of unimpressed panels, you know, with their resumes,  flipping through and saying, Well, this is it? 
I was very struck by Natalie Merchant's songs last night, recovering old poems. 
It's axiomatic. Why not us? 
They went on to describe me as America's greenest CEO. 
And theft of our children's future would someday be a crime. 
According to Paul and Anne Ehrlich and a well-known environmental impact equation, impact -- a bad thing -- is the product of population, affluence and technology. 
Paul and Anne Ehrlich's environmental impact equation: I is equal to P times A times T: population, affluence and technology. 
And I reasoned that if we could make those transformative changes, and get rid of T1 altogether, we could reduce our impact to zero, including our impact on the climate. 
Fossil fuel usage is down 60 percent per unit of production, due to efficiencies in renewables. 
Down 40 percent in our broadloom carpet business, which we acquired in 1993 right here in California, City of Industry, where water is so precious. 
We have diverted 148 million pounds -- that's 74,000 tons -- of used carpet from landfills, closing the loop on material flows through reverse logistics and post-consumer recycling technologies that did not exist when we started 14 years ago. 
Costs, products, people, marketplaces -- what else is there? 
But the marketplace was down 36 percent. 
We can see our way now, clear to the top of that mountain. 
Who is that person? 
And we're all acutely aware: what's it going to mean in the future when we ask someone to pay a hundred dollars for a symphony, opera or ballet ticket, when that cultural consumer is used to downloading on the internet 24 hours a day for 99 cents a song or for free? 
The arts reformation, like the religious Reformation, is spurred in part by technology, with indeed, the printing press really leading the charge on the religious Reformation. 
This group, others have called the pro ams, amateur artists doing work at a professional level. 
But I want to be clear, just as the religious Reformation did not spell the end to the formal Church or to the priesthood; I believe that our artistic institutions will continue to have importance. 
And indeed, I think, rather than being annihilated, the performing arts are posed on the brink of a time when we will be more important than we have ever been. 
I salute all of you as activists in that quest and urge you to embrace and hold dear the arts in your work, whatever your purpose may be. 
Thank you. 
Manchester Craftsmen's Guild is named after my neighborhood. 
Built in a tough neighborhood where people have been given up for dead. 
My view is that if you want to involve yourself in the life of people who have been given up on, you have to look like the solution and not the problem. 
And now that I'm giving speeches at conferences like TED, I got put on the board of the Carnegie Museum. 
Well, I think that welfare mothers and at-risk kids and ex-steel workers deserve a fountain in their life. 
And he called me into his office -- which is the equivalent of going to see the Wizard of Oz  -- and John Heinz had 600 million dollars, and at the time I had about 60 cents. 
So at my school, we subsidize a gourmet lunch program for welfare mothers in the middle of the inner city because we've discovered that it's good for their stomachs, but it's better for their heads. 
I've actually eaten seven of those baskets and they're very good. 
Remember I'm the black kid from the '60s who got his life saved with ceramics. 
Let me show you what these people do. 
We have a world class gallery because we believe that poor kids need a world class gallery, so I designed this thing. 
So, he jumped in the van, he went to Miss Jones' house and said, Miss Jones, I knew you wanted to come to your kid's art opening but you probably didn't have a ride. 
And there is no statistical difference between the white parents and the black parents. 
She said, Well, I work for a company called Hewlett-Packard. 
And I said, Well, there's an easy solution to that problem. 
He said, Because I heard you built the center and I didn't believe that you did it, and I wanted to see for myself. 
Well, we did win, and our name was literally in lights over Madison Square Garden. 
And that was our first recording studio, which was the broom closet. 
And this is what I want to do when I grow up. 
This is in a place called San Francisco. 
And I said, Herbie, this is my concept of a training center for poor people. 
And now I really want to build one. 
And I promised these people that I was going to build this thing, and we're going to build it all right. 
And I said, If I can follow that music, I'll get out into the sunlight and I'll be OK. 
And I don't think I'm crazy. 
So, 10 times more bacterial cells than human cells on a human being. 
At the best, you're 10 percent human, but more likely about one percent human, depending on which of these metrics you like. 
And so we wanted to think if there couldn't be a different way that bacteria live. 
What you're looking at on this slide is just a person from my lab holding a flask of a liquid culture of a bacterium, a harmless beautiful bacterium that comes from the ocean, named Vibrio fischeri. 
We just took the picture by turning the lights off in the room, and this is what we see. 
But when they grew to a certain cell number all the bacteria turned on light simultaneously. 
The question that we had is how can bacteria, these primitive organisms, tell the difference from times when they're alone, and times when they're in a community, and then all do something together. 
This is like the stealth bomber of the ocean. 
And then as the cells grow, they're all releasing that molecule into the environment, so there's lots of molecule there. 
But the one that's probably the most important to you is virulence. 
This is the Vibrio fischeri molecule. 
So then we started to look at other bacteria, and these are just a smattering of the molecules that we've discovered. 
The left-hand part of the molecule is identical in every single species of bacteria. 
What that does is to confer exquisite species specificities to these languages. 
Each molecule fits into its partner receptor and no other. 
Each bacteria uses a particular molecule that's its language that allows it to count its own siblings. 
Anywhere on your body, it looks pretty much like this, and what I hope you can see is that there's all kinds of bacteria there. 
Couldn't these be new kinds of antibiotics? 
And so now of course we have this global problem in infectious diseases. 
The first one is we've targeted the intraspecies communication system. 
I hope that what you've learned is that bacteria can distinguish self from other. 
This is exactly what happens in your body. 
But then, to finish with a plug for all the good and miraculous bacteria that live on the Earth, we've also made pro-quorum sensing molecules. 
Remember you have these 10 times or more bacterial cells in you or on you, keeping you healthy. 
So I'm really a basic scientist, not a clinician, but in the last year and a half I've started to switch over, to use what we've been learning about these patterns of activity to develop prosthetic devices, and what I wanted to do today is show you an example of this. 
It's really our first foray into this. 
Like this pattern of pulses here actually means baby's face, and so when the brain gets this pattern of pulses, it knows that what was out there was a baby's face, and if it got a different pattern it would know that what was out there was, say, a dog, or another pattern would be a house. 
So this is what we've been working on, and this is what our prosthetic does. 
So a completely blind retina, even one with no front-end circuitry at all, no photoreceptors, can now send out normal signals, signals that the brain can understand. 
And so with the standard method, the cells do fire, they just don't fire in the normal firing patterns because they don't have the right code. 
This is just actually the first one that we tried. 
So it's different from the motor prosthetics where you're communicating from the brain to a device. Here we have to communicate from the outside world into the brain and be understood, and be understood by the brain. 
You can just call it out. 
Who else? 
The worst flute players. 
Actually, that was Aristotle's answer too. 
Peter: The greatest benefit to all. 
The greatest benefit to all. 
All right. 
Aristotle had a different reason for saying the best flutes should go to the best flute players. 
And the point, the essential nature, of musical performance is to produce excellent music. 
Suppose you were on the Supreme Court. 
Suppose you were deciding the justice of this case. 
Raise your hand, and we'll try to get you a microphone. 
That's part of the game of golf?  
Charlie, what do you say to Warren? 
Warren: I am not a golfer. 
He wouldn't have granted the cart, and he had a very interesting dissent. 
But since it is the very nature of a game to have no object except amusement,  that is, what distinguishes games from productive activity,  it is quite impossible to say that any of a game's arbitrary rules is essential. 
First, no real sports fan would talk that way. 
On the face of it, it seemed to be -- this debate about the golf cart -- an argument about fairness, what's an unfair advantage. 
So if golfing is the kind of game that can be played while riding around in a golf cart, it would be hard to confer on the golfing greats the status that we confer, the honor and recognition that goes to truly great athletes. 
How many here favor the first policy: the state should recognize traditional marriage only? 
I'm going to talk about why we have to get our shit together, and actually talk about this a bit more than we do. 
That was easy. OK. 
OK. Hands up: anyone in the audience who's not sure whether malaria is a good thing or a bad thing? 
You know, a lot of people said, Well, you know, city boys have no business telling us rural types what to do with our time. 
It's a global trance. 
But the question is, are they so dangerous -- these risks of doing something about aging -- that they outweigh the downside of doing the opposite, namely, leaving aging as it is? 
People worry about overpopulation; they say, Well, if we fix aging, no one's going to die to speak of, or at least the death toll is going to be much lower, only from crossing St. Giles carelessly. 
This pro-aging trance is what stops us from agitating about these things. 
But it isn't. 
So, these trajectories here are basically how we would expect people to live, in terms of remaining life expectancy, as measured by their health, for given ages that they were at the time that these therapies arrive. 
But if you're only 50, then there's a chance that you might be able to pull out of the dive and, you know --  -- eventually get through this and start becoming biologically younger in a meaningful sense, in terms of your youthfulness, both physical and mental, and in terms of your risk of death from age-related causes. 
And of course, if you're a bit younger than that, then you're never really even going to get near to being fragile enough to die of age-related causes. 
And that's quite a thought. 
So, in other words, we add two years -- we treble their remaining lifespan, starting from the point that we started the therapies. 
So we're likely to end up with a very strong change in people's attitudes, and of course that has enormous implications. 
Because the critical thing about this is that even though the damage only eventually causes pathology, the damage itself is caused ongoing-ly throughout life, starting before we're born. 
And the reason it's a losing battle is because the damage is continuing to accumulate. 
So, these seven things were all under discussion in gerontology a long time ago and that is pretty good news, because it means that, you know, we've come a long way in biology in these 20 years, so the fact that we haven't extended this list is a pretty good indication that there's no extension to be done. 
And you know what happened. 
But, I mean, look -- how long does it take to spend that on the war in Iraq? 
And I think we know how to do it. And I'll stop there. 
Audience: Species on this planet have evolved with immune systems to fight off all the diseases so that individuals live long enough to procreate. 
If I project that, that would make me think that I would live until 120 if I don't crash on my motorbike. 
Ninety-nine pence was the starting price and no reserve. 
Then there was the volcano that interrupted the travel plans of almost all of you and many of your friends, including President Obama. 
I'm here to tell you the story of Audur Capital, which is a financial firm founded by me and Kristin -- who you see in the picture -- in the spring of 2007, just over a year before the economic collapse hit. 
And we believe that doing emotional due diligence is just as important as doing financial due diligence. 
So we like to see profits, plus positive social and environmental benefits, when we invest. 
Now that we've had all that happen, and we have all this data out there telling us that it's much better to have diversity around the decision-making tables, will we see business and finance change? 
I want to see more revolutionary thinking, and I remain hopeful. 
For me it was the start of a long journey, but I decided that day to matter. 
External debt -- something that I can tell you a long story about because I personally worked on one of the biggest debts on the continent -- has come down dramatically. 
Because we are confronted with a challenge. 
We need to bring it back to say, what is the combination of all these factors that is going to yield what we want?  
And I want to tell you something. 
The issue is not that. 
She was three years old and I was 15. 
Now I put my sister on my back -- burning -- and I walked 10 kilometers with her strapped on my back. 
In about two to three hours, she started to move. 
You know, we have to use it well. 
For which many people, even from other parts of the world, are going there to find jobs. 
They are just discovering. 
Let's sit down and really tell you where the money should be channeled and where this aid should go. 
How can we get government to combine properly with these private foundations, with the international organizations, and with our private sector. 
Aid cannot solve our problems, I'm firmly convinced about that. 
In fact, the Chinese minister of finance said to me, when I asked him what are we doing wrong in Nigeria. 
Infrastructure, infrastructure, infrastructure and discipline. 
And I repeat it for the continent. 
And lastly, what are you going to do to be part of this partnership of aid, government, private sector and the African as an individual? 
I will say though that, after having done surgery a lot, it's somewhat similar to playing a musical instrument. 
And I'll tell you that most scientific studies of music, they're very dense, and when you actually go through them, it's very hard to recognize the music in it. 
That blood flow causes an increase in local blood to that area with a deoxyhemoglobin change in concentration. 
Charles Limb: This is a plastic MIDI piano keyboard that we use for the jazz experiments. 
And so what we did was we brought professional jazz players to the NIH, and we had them memorize this piece of music on the left, the lower-left -- which is what you heard me playing -- and then we had them improvise to the same exact chord changes. 
And I've listened to that solo 200 times, and I still like it. 
And so we had this focal area called the medial prefrontal cortex that went way up in activity. 
We had this broad patch of area called the lateral prefrontal cortex that went way down in activity, and I'll summarize that for you here. 
Now these are multifunctional areas of the brain. 
The fact that we do it over and over again lets you acclimate to your surroundings. 
So how do you study rap scientifically? 
With this big screen, you can all rap with me. Okay? 
He's just memorized a rhyme for us. 
And what we see, we do see language areas lighting up, but then -- eyes closed -- when you are free-styling versus memorizing, you've got major visual areas lighting up. 
You have heightened brain activity when you're doing a comparable task, when that one task is creative and the other task is memorized. 
I mean, don't get me wrong. Calculus is an important subject. 
And every student who studies math, science, engineering, economics, they should definitely learn calculus by the end of their freshman year of college. 
It's understanding data. 
Look, the world has changed from analog to digital. 
The majority of our functional brain is distributed over the outer surface layer of the brain, and to increase the area that's available for mental capacity, the brain surface is highly folded. 
Our breakthrough was to create an algorithm that unfolds the cortex, so that we can map the signals closer to its source, and therefore making it capable of working across a mass population. 
The second challenge is the actual device for observing brainwaves. 
With neutral, there's nothing in particular that Evan needs to do. 
It takes eight seconds to do this, and now that that's done, we can choose a movement-based action. 
So Evan, choose something that you can visualize clearly in your mind. 
So the idea here now is that Evan needs to imagine the object coming forward into the screen, and there's a progress bar that will scroll across the screen while he's doing that. 
The first time, nothing will happen, because the system has no idea how he thinks about pull. 
So: one, two, three, go. 
Okay. 
Ah, good job! 
That's really amazing. 
So what you want to do -- at least with movement-based actions, we do that all the time, so you can visualize it. 
So I'd like to show you a few examples, because there are many possible applications for this new interface. 
And bed nets have an effect on the epidemic, but you're never going to make it extinct with bed nets. 
We could spend hours going over this. 
It creates a very high peak power and it lets you do all kinds of interesting things; in particular, it lets you find hemozoin. 
And using both this technique and other optical techniques, we think we can make those diagnostics. 
We also have another hemozoin-oriented therapy for malaria: a way, in acute cases, to actually take the malaria parasite and filter it out of the blood system. 
You can give drug administration. 
We have all of the precipitation data and the temperature data. 
That's very important because the humidity and precipitation tell you whether you've got standing pools of water for the mosquitoes to breed. 
So that sets the stage on which you do this. 
Now, one of the ways you can make them not fly is with DDT. 
In 1935, there were 150,000 cases a year of malaria in the United States, but DDT and a massive public health effort managed to squelch it. 
Audience: Yeah! 
Nathan Myhrvold: Okay, so our legal department prepared a disclaimer, and here it is. 
Now, after thinking about this a little bit we thought, you know, it probably would be simpler to do this with a nonlethal laser. 
We have the device over here. 
Now, that's a fairly straightforward image processing routine, and let me show you how it works. 
This is very satisfying. 
It grows and is nurtured. 
Basically a restaurant just like any other. 
Chairs: recycled and recyclable. 
I was experimenting with these -- I don't know if you can see it -- but there's a work surface there. 
This is the kitchen, which is in the same room. 
Rather than me putting a dish down, they were allowed to help themselves to as much or as little as they wanted. 
This is the waste room. 
In here, I have produce and boxes that are unavoidable. 
I'm taking the temperature of the canal outside, pumping it through the heat exchange mechanism, it's turning through these amazing sails on the roof, and that, in turn, is falling softly onto the people in the restaurant, cooling them, or heating them, as the need may be. 
In the canal, which is just outside the restaurant, there is hundreds of meters of coil piping. 
He's growing all his own fruit, and that's fantastic. 
So you've got to watch your space for that. 
Okay. So this is my next project. 
I mean, the whole thing is is super-sustainable. 
And no one's doing that just yet. 
This is a herd, and it is built according to genetical codes. 
In fact, it's a new invention of the wheel. 
In fact, this is better than a wheel, because when you try to drive with your bicycle on the beach, you will notice it's very hard to do. 
OK. Good. 
So as soon it has been to the sea, it changes the pattern of zeroes and ones here, and it knows always where it is on the beach. So it's very simple brain. 
So it's a sort of imagination of the simple world of the beach animal. 
We did Haemophilus influenzae and then the smallest genome of a self-replicating organism, that of Mycoplasma genitalium. 
In 2003, we published our first success. 
So Ham Smith and Clyde Hutchison developed some new methods for making error-free DNA at a small level. 
And we can walk through the reasons for that, but basically the small cell took on the order of one to two months to get results from, whereas the larger, faster-growing cell takes only two days. 
It's an amazing step forward, but we had a problem because now we had the bacterial chromosomes growing in yeast. 
And we thought this would be a great test bed for learning how to get chromosomes out of yeast and transplant them. 
We narrowed it down to one fragment; we sequenced it and found just one base pair had been deleted in an essential gene. 
we got a text from Dan saying that, now, the first blue colonies existed. 
So early on, we developed the notion of putting in watermarks in the DNA to absolutely make clear that the DNA was synthetic. 
It's significant to us. 
So when you see how long it took to get an H1N1 vaccine out, we think we can shorten that process quite substantially. 
You may have heard about the Koran's idea of paradise being 72 virgins, and I promise I will come back to those virgins. 
It's just 29 words in Arabic, but anywhere from 65 to 72 in translation. 
But all is not lost in translation. 
And that number 72 never appears. 
There are no 72 virgins in the Koran. 
They all live in colonies consisting of one or a few queens, and then all the ants you see walking around are sterile female workers. 
Here's my study site. This is really a picture of ants, and the rabbit just happens to be there. 
Ants never make more ants; colonies make more colonies. 
And this shows a recently virgin queen. Here's her wings. 
She lays eggs, she feeds the larvae -- so an ant starts as an egg, then it's a larva. 
So, things happen to an ant colony. 
When it rains in the summer, it floods in the desert. 
And that's the process that I call task allocation. 
That is, that there are chambers inside, they line the walls of the chambers with moist soil and it dries to a kind of an adobe-like surface in it. 
And finally, the midden workers put some kind of territorial chemical in the garbage. 
So, an ant starts out somewhere near the queen. 
The queen's in there somewhere; she just lays eggs. 
So just to reinforce that what you might have thought about ant queens isn't true -- you know, even if the queen did have the intelligence to send chemical messages through this whole network of chambers to tell the ants outside what to do, there is no way that such messages could make it in time to see the shifts in the allocation of workers that we actually see outside the nest. 
We started out with model airplane paint and then we found these wonderful little Japanese markers, and they work really well. 
And so just to summarize the result, well it turns out that yes, the different tasks are interdependent. 
And the second result, which was surprising to a lot of people, was that ants actually switch tasks. 
The same ant doesn't do the same task over and over its whole life. 
This process changes with colony age, and it changes like this. 
Instead, something about the organization must be changing as the colony gets older. 
And what we're learning is that an ant uses the pattern of its antennal contacts, the rate at which it meets ants of other tasks, in deciding what to do. 
And we've just recently demonstrated this by putting extract of hydrocarbons on little glass beads, and dropping the beads gently down into the nest entrance at the right rate. 
So I want now to show you a bit of film -- and this will start out, first of all, showing you the nest entrance. 
This is taken through a fiber optics microscope. It's down inside the nest. 
Each ant, then, as it comes back in, is contacting other ants. 
So, what's interesting about this system is that it's messy. 
Again, I don't want to say that this kind of haphazard pattern of interactions produces a factory that works with the precision and efficiency of clockwork. 
That we can take the whole idea that gave birth to the Internet and bring it down to the physical world in this Internet Zero, this internet of devices. 
Unlike this screen where the dots are placed carefully, this is a raw material. 
This was just a proof of principle he did of tiles that interact magnetically, where you write a code, much like protein folding, that specifies their structure. 
But I had a problem. Once I had all these machines, I was spending too much time teaching students to use them. 
When a user screams into scream buddy, their scream is silenced. 
But you don't use it for inventory and payroll; DEC is now twice bankrupt. You don't need personal fabrication in the home to buy what you can buy because you can buy it. 
And the way you close it is not IT for the masses but IT development for the masses. 
You can see it in their face, just this joy of, I can do it. 
We designed a network sensor, and kids would show up and refuse to leave the lab. 
This is late at, you know, 11 o'clock at night and I think I was the only person surprised when what she built worked the first time. 
And, again, that was just for the joy of it. 
And then, in turn, businesses started to grow, like making these antennas. 
We're learning more from them than we're giving them. 
I was showing my kids in a Fab Lab how to use it. 
Real invention is happening in these labs. 
PDPs came between mainframes and minicomputers. 
It was there because they wanted to find animals in the mountains but it outgrew it, so they built this extraordinary village for the lab. 
If this room full of heroes is just clever enough, you can solve the problems. 
The message coming from the Fab Labs is that the other five billion people on the planet aren't just technical sinks; they're sources. 
That has got to be stopped. 
Somehow that doesn't seem right. 
So here we are using 20 million barrels a day -- producing eight, importing 12, and from the 12, five comes from OPEC. 
Now I had people in Washington last week told me, he said, The Saudis can produce the oil for five dollars a barrel. 
We're headed to natural gas. 
Run it through the separator and you're ready to use it. 
Natural gas will fit all of those. 
It will replace or be able to be used for that. 
So I have tried to target on where we use the natural gas. 
And where I've targeted is on the heavy-duty trucks. 
There are eight million of them. 
I'm back to theorist again. 
So there's nothing going on that impresses me in Washington on that plan, other than I'm trying to focus on that eight million 18-wheelers. 
Thank you. 
That'll make you abandon something. 
I'm a geologist, got out of school in '51, and I've been in the industry my entire life. 
I'm not a big natural gas producer. 
You've made the money you need. 
Does that make sense? 
The government is not successful on these things. 
But Chris, I think where we're headed, the long-term, I don't mind going back to nuclear. 
There isn't anything wrong with nuke. 
TBP: Fracking? What is fracking? 
I mean seriously, the Department of Energy did not have anything to do with fracking. 
The first frack job was in '47. 
There's no problems. 
If someone comes to you with a plan that really looks like it might be part of this solution, are you ready to invest in those technologies, even if they aren't maximized for profits, they might be maximized for the future health of the planet? 
When you think about resilience and technology it's actually much easier. 
The Internet was also very real. This is a real way for humans to communicate with each other. It's a big deal. 
People on the East Coast in 1849, when they first started to get the news, they thought, Ah, this isn't real. 
You had dotcom fever. And you had gold fever. 
And they wouldn't let the other half out to go look for the first half because they were afraid they wouldn't come back. 
They had bad burn rate in the Gold Rush. A very bad burn rate. 
This is a commercial that was played on the Super Bowl in the year 2000. 
: Bride #1: You said you had a large selection of invitations. Clerk: But we do. 
Husband #2: Not for another 15 minutes. Announcer: After all, it's your special day. 
OurBeginning.com. Life's an event. Announce it to the world. 
So there's a much better analogy that allows you to be incredibly optimistic and that analogy is the electric industry. 
This was a huge -- as you would expect -- a huge capital build out. 
Well, it was because that heavy infrastructure had already been laid down. 
They would -- each room typically had a light bulb socket at the top. 
And there's a rotor there -- that this motor is spinning. 
And they were really happy that the guy had a speakerphone because then they had to wait on hold for an hour to talk to somebody to give them an access code after they got there. 
Because, you know, resilience -- if you think of it in terms of the Gold Rush, then you'd be pretty depressed right now because the last nugget of gold would be gone. 
She -- but you know, if you really do believe that it's the very, very beginning, if you believe it's the 1908 Hurley washing machine, then you're incredibly optimistic. And I do think that that's where we are. 
The golden rule is great. I'm a big supporter of both. 
In the beginning, there was compassion, and I mean not just when human beings first showed up, but actually even before that. 
I warned you this was not going to be very warm and fuzzy. 
Now, there's more good news that came along later in evolution, a second kind of evolutionary logic. 
And so, you wind up most easily extending compassion to friends and allies. 
So, I hope I've got your attention with this promise of good news that may save the world. 
Basically, a zero-sum game is the kind you're used to in sports, where there's a winner and a loser. 
Either way, your fortunes add up to zero. That's a zero-sum game. 
Now, if you're playing doubles, then the person on your side of the net is in a non-zero-sum relationship with you, because every point is either good for both of you -- positive, win-win -- or bad for both of you, it's lose-lose. 
The deployment of the golden rule most naturally happens along these non-zero-sum channels. 
With zero-sum channels you would expect something else. 
But it may. And the good news is that history has naturally expanded these webs of non-zero-sumness, these webs that can be these channels for compassion. 
That's the story of civilization. 
And also, sometimes people don't recognize the non-zero-sum dynamics in the world. 
I think politicians can help foster non-zero-sum relationships, Economic engagement is generally better than blockades and so on, in this regard. 
If there's one thing I can encourage everyone to do, politicians, religious leaders, and us, it would be what I call expanding the moral imagination -- that is to say, your ability to put yourself in the shoes of people in very different circumstances. 
Once upon a time, I did a book called How Buildings Learn. 
So the design problem for today is going to be, how do you house an eventual monumental clock like this so it can really tick, save time beautifully for 100 centuries? 
And it looked like a way to go, until you start thinking about, what does deep time do to a building? 
This is the Parthenon. It's only 2,450 years old, and look what happened to it. 
And now it's a pathetic ruin and no one even knows what it was used for. 
Underground in a place that's really solid. 
It's right on the eastern border of Nevada. 
It starts with the image. The image is a picture you have in your mind of the goal at the end of the journey. 
The labyrinth is a concept, it's like a twilight zone, it's a place where it's difficult, where you get disoriented, maybe you get scared -- but you have to go through it if you're going to get to some kind of deep reintegration. 
The Hillis algorithm. 10 factorial gives you that number. 
Something you didn't expect that caps what you did expect. 
And then, how about a memento? Number seven. 
What are the elements that will most affect your ideas and decisions? 
People think they're just the size of shrubs, but that's not actually true. 
That's interesting. 
But it goes a mile-and-a-half in a straight line, due east into the range, into very interesting territory -- except that, as you'll see when we go inside in a minute, we were hoping for limestone but in there is just shale. 
Competent rock is rock that will hold itself up without any shoring. 
You may recognize a couple of the miners there. 
And Alexander Rose on the left there worked with a bunch of people from the National Park to survey the whole mine. It's a mile deep. 
Kurt Bollacker and Alexander Rose designed a radically wireless station. 
But there's no bears, and there's no poison oak, and there's basically no people because this place has been empty for a long time. 
Well, here's a potential approach. 
You need to come up the Lincoln Canyon. 
It's a secret passage. It's like something from Tolkien. 
And then, of course, the next thing I hear is, I've made it to the top. You can see all of creation from up here. 
In fact, there he is. That's Alexander Rose. 
This discovery changed everything about our sense of these cliffs and what to do with them. 
So even with the slowing of the rotation of the earth and so on, the clock will keep perfectly good time. 
So here we're looking from the south, look north. 
Over on the eastern side it's gentle, as you can see. 
And that's not snow -- that's what the white limestone looks like. 
Another is the experience in the mountain. 
And the third is the experience from the mountain, which is really dominated by the view shed of the spring valley there behind Danny, and if you look off to the right, out there, 15 miles across to the Schell Creek range. 
This is Rocky Mountain junipers that have been there for thousands of years. 
OK, let's take one more look at the mountain itself. 
And this stone takes a perfect polish. 
Most of the amazingness of the clock we can borrow from the amazingness of the mountain. 
And often, I'm driving in a taxi and I see a hole in a shirt, or something that looks very interesting or pretty or functional in some way that I'd never seen happen before. 
I don't know where inspiration comes from. 
And I think about, you know, their roles, and about how you have to, like, watch what your daughters look at. 
So actually, check this out. 
I was dating this guy, right? 
I was dating this guy and it was going on for about a year, right. 
And I kind of try not to look back, you know. 
And frankly, I don't really know what to call myself. 
Too much time on computer bridge, which is, you know, like that's so ... somehow, like, about ten years ago I thought that the most unboring place in the world would be like a T.V. studio, like for a day show. Some kind of day talk show. 
Because it's all of these things that I love all kind of in one place. 
Hi there. 
ROD: Cutting hair. 
Just checking, because some people want to look, you know, aggressively ugly. 
A: Oh no, we're just staging, ROD: We're just staging it. 
I'll tell you that I cook a lot also. I love to cook. 
This is what I've been doing because I think it's the most fun thing in the world. 
It's got a lot of different things on it. 
Yeah, but I can never find buttermilk, ever. 
Chef: For cream? 
Have you ever wondered how such a situation can be turned around? 
Have you ever looked at the Arab uprisings and thought, How could we have predicted that? 
But I believe now that we're moving into a new age, and that age The New York Times dubbed recently as the age of behavior. 
And these ideas and narratives that bump people across borders are increasingly beginning to affect the way in which people behave. 
If we look at Islamists, if we look at the phenomenon of far-right fascists, one thing they've been very good at, one thing that they've actually been exceeding in, is communicating across borders, using technologies to organize themselves, to propagate their message and to create truly global phenomena. 
But having been born in Essex, at the age of 16, I joined an organization. 
By the age of 24, I found myself convicted in prison in Egypt, being blacklisted from three countries in the world for attempting to overthrow their governments, being subjected to torture in Egyptian jails and sentenced to five years as a prisoner of conscience. 
The age of behavior: where ideas and narratives were increasingly defining behavior and identity and allegiances. 
In certain countries, mosque minarets are being banned. 
And why are democracy aspirants falling behind? 
So the ideas and the narratives of Al-Qaeda come to your mind immediately. 
One of their leaders was killed in Pakistan recently. 
To go around saying that I believe democratic culture is the best that we've arrived at as a form of political organizing is associated with extremism. 
When talking about those reasons, let's break down certain preconceptions. 
But without freedom of speech, you can't have free and fair elections. 
In the '80s and '90s when Islamism started in the region, it spread across the MENA region as a whole. 
Now that's a big claim. I'm going to try to back it up. 
Slow, text-based conversations, then real-time voice based conversations. 
He traces the edges of the individual networks and then color codes them. 
But they weren't given that choice, because their own citizens beat them to the punch. 
Essentially to say, We will do anything to placate you, just please stop protesting in public. 
And so the protest kept going. 
And so they began to arrest the protesters. 
All of that is over. 
He had said, in January, that he would not sign a bill that granted telecom immunity for possibly warrantless spying on American persons. 
It was Senator Obama when they created it. They changed the name later. 
He had to issue a reply. 
And he said essentially, I have considered the issue. 
Media, the media landscape that we knew, as familiar as it was, as easy conceptually as it was to deal with the idea that professionals broadcast messages to amateurs, is increasingly slipping away. 
That's the media environment we've got. 
And today, after the global economic crisis, there was a whole new set of rules about how the state should intervene. 
The first, to my mind, is what I call as the ideas that have arrived. 
We thought of people as a liability. 
This change has contributed to the vitality and the whole economy. 
And the fact that we have English is now becoming a huge strategic asset. 
One is the question of education. 
The third thing is again cities. 
But today, finally, after economic reforms, and economic growth, I think the notion that cities are engines of economic growth, cities are engines of creativity, cities are engines of innovation, have finally been accepted. 
A lot of the Indian problems are related to the ideology of caste and other things. 
Therefore we will fundamentally rethink the way we look at the environment, the way we look at energy, the way we create whole new paradigms of development. 
Why does what's happening 10 thousand miles away matter to all of you? 
And that makes a huge difference. 
When India was growing at about three, 3.5 percent and the population was growing at two percent, its per capita income was doubling every 45 years. 
I've been there six times: Four times I did work with National Geographic, making tectonic plate measurements; twice, I went with NASA doing remote sensing devices. 
That gives you an idea of just how severe things are near the summit. 
There were three other expeditions on the mountain, an American team, a New Zealand team and an IMAX team. 
And from there we climb up to Camp Two, which is sort of the foreground. 
If you notice, the summit of Everest is black. 
This is not good weather to climb in, so the climbers are just waiting, hoping that the wind's going to die down. 
The summit would be in the foreground. 
But what happened that year was the wind suddenly and unexpectedly picked up. 
I have an oxygen hose connected here. 
OK, this is a view taken on the summit ridge itself. 
But, either way, you fall for the rest of your life. 
This is taken from Camp Three, where I was. 
So, as the climbers came by me, I sort of assessed whether or not they were in condition to continue on further down. 
His wife was home in New Zealand, seven months pregnant with their first child, and Rob asked to be patched into her. That was done, and Rob and his wife had their last conversation. 
It's a tackle box filled with medical supplies. 
What we did was try to warm them up as best we could, put oxygen on them and try to revive them, which is difficult to do at 21,000 feet, when the tent is freezing. 
As I was taking care of these climbers, we got a startling experience. 
But Beck wasn't dead; he heard that, but he was completely unable to move. 
Now, you go to this one and you see how much more the frontal lobes are lighting up. 
He's trying to get his muscles going and get out of this. 
It's too cold; he can't keep his metabolic fires going, and, you see, there's no more red here; his brain is quieting down. 
He's thinking about what he's got to do to save himself. 
He's not thinking about his family now, and he's getting himself motivated. 
A helicopter came in at 21,000 feet and carried out the highest helicopter rescue in history. 
It's our trailer, because I know, obviously you guys are busy, many of you may not have had a chance to see it. 
If we could roll? 
Michael Moriarty's Wife: It's really hard for him to not have his dad. 
They're shooting at me. 
Deborah Scranton: Thank you. 
We were one of the lucky ones to get in the class with the Sony cameras and the Vista software. 
I mean, we were there for an hour, talking. 
And it really highlighted something that I would like to ask you guys to think about and hopefully to help with, which is, I think a lot of us are very afraid to have conversations about war, and about politics. 
How do we open it up to really be able to have a conversation? 
It was mass casualties. 
This is blood. 
Five soldiers filmed the entire time. 
They spent their entire day outside the wire trying to save Iraqi lives -- the Iraqis who work on the post. 
And for me, it's trying to bridge that disconnect. 
I get -- I'm often asked, you know, for me, what have been some of the special moments from having worked on this film. 
And he looked at me, and I smiled, and then I saw the tears start welling up in his eyes. 
So when I talk about a disconnect, it's not only for maybe those people who don't know a soldier, which there obviously are. You know, these days, it's not like World War II, where there was a war front and a home front, and everybody seemed involved. 
Do you give money to any of the charities? 
Do you really care? 
And it was something called EcoRock. 
And they worked absolutely very, very, very hard. 
That's the finished production line there. 
We must change everything. 
So let's first talk about focused ultrasound. 
And I hold in my hand a tissue-mimicking phantom. 
It is transparent, made just for you. 
This is a setup I put in a physics lab. 
We need to reach a target inside the brain. 
But you may not know that he tried to perform lobotomies in the brain, noninvasively, with focused ultrasound in the '50s. 
And it makes you ponder why those pioneers failed. 
They were missing the vision. 
It is approved under an FDAIDE at the University of Virginia in Charlottesville using focused ultrasound to ablate a point in his thalamus. 
We attach a transducer, in this case, to the brain, but if it will be a different organ, it will be a different transducer attached to the patient. 
It's a target in the thalamus. 
It doesn't do any damage, but it elevates the temperature by a few degrees. 
But here we can get both the anatomical imaging and the temperature maps in real time. 
So once the physician verifies that the focus spot is on the target he has chosen, then we move to perform a full-energy ablation like you see here. 
And you have to understand what is in people's mind when they are willing to take the risk. 
They drove like three hours from their farm to the hospital. 
So again, this is an immediate relief. 
I don't see, without this nation taking it as some collective will or something that is a national goal to make that happen, it will not happen. 
And it's not just because of regulation; it's because of the amount of money needed under the current evidence-based medicine and the size of trials and so on to make it happen. 
And we have better-than-surgery results in breasts. 
Women suffer from that disease. 
In the fashion industry, there's very little intellectual property protection. 
It's because it's a lot harder for knock-off artists to knock off these designs because they can't knock off the logo. 
Now, the reason for this, the reason that the fashion industry doesn't have any copyright protection is because the courts decided long ago that apparel is too utilitarian to qualify for copyright protection. 
Now, fashion designers have the broadest palette imaginable in this creative industry. 
People think this is a magical thing. How does it happen? 
Johanna Blakley: Imagine that. 
They make deals with the fast fashion giants and they come up with a way to sell their product to a whole new demographic: the Santee Alley demographic. 
Very low novelty standard, anybody can register anything. 
That is a very difficult question to answer. 
Fireworks displays, the rules of games, the smell of perfume: no. 
It is more complex than this, but this will do. 
The problem is that digital technology has completely subverted the logic of this physically fixed, expression versus idea concept. 
This individual lives in the Atacama Desert in Chile, and it happens to be 3,000 years old. 
And I'm also trying to create a means in which to step outside our quotidian experience of time and to start to consider a deeper timescale. 
I'd been traveling in Japan without an agenda other than to photograph, and then I heard about this tree that is 2,180 years old and knew that I had to go visit it. 
This is a clonal tree as well. 
I spoke to the biologist who discovered this tree, and he told me that that spindly growth you see there in the center is most likely a product of climate change. 
Does anybody know how old the oldest tortoise is -- any guesses? 
And then, you might have heard of this giant clam that was discovered off the coast of northern Iceland that reached 405 years old. 
However, it died in the lab as they were determining its age. 
I had the opportunity to travel around the Limpopo Province in South Africa with an expert in Baobab trees. 
They contain thousands of years of their own histories within themselves, and they also contain records of natural and human events. 
And it actually never sheds those leaves, so it also bears the distinction of having the longest leaves in the plant kingdom. 
This is something called an underground forest. 
The tree can easily recover. 
But what's unique about it is that it's doing DNA repair below freezing. 
It's my hope that, by going to find these organisms, that I can help draw attention to their remarkable resilience and help play a part in insuring their continued longevity into the foreseeable future. 
Our leaders and ourselves want everything, but we don't talk about the costs. 
And when we would gather as fellows, she would push us to think about how the elders in Native American culture make decisions. 
They said they would try so hard to remember the fragments of the dance, hoping that others were alive and doing the same. 
But we find those entrepreneurs who put people and the planet before profit. 
And it's only when we honor them and celebrate them and give them status that the world will really change. 
For two years, he hardly made any money, a tiny stipend, but he apprenticed with this incredible housing developer named Tasneem Saddiqui. 
He said, Long story. 
We can take the easier road, the more cynical road, which is a road based on sometimes dreams of a past that never really was, a fear of each other, distancing and blame. 
I had the great honor of working with the child psychologist Dr. Robert Coles, who stood up for change during the Civil Rights movement in the United States. 
My final story is about a young, beautiful man named Josephat Byaruhanga, who was another Acumen Fund fellow, who hails from Uganda, a farming community. 
And we placed him in a company in Western Kenya, just 200 miles away. 
And he said to me at the end of his year, Jacqueline, it was so humbling, because I thought as a farmer and as an African I would understand how to transcend culture. 
Robert Kennedy once said that few of us have the greatness to bend history itself, but each of us can work to change a small portion of events. 
But we do not know his face. 
I find that hard to believe. 
It also has to be sufficiently detailed. 
All we did was look for portraits that had the characteristics of a self-portrait, and look, they are very similar. 
They are made in the right order. 
It has stored, recorded, can fastly retrieve the meanings of thousands, tens of thousands of objects, actions, and their relationships in the world. 
Now movement has advanced to the point where it can actually control movement simultaneously, in a complex sequence, in complex ways as would be required for example for playing a complicated game, like soccer. 
You could go out into the community in Monterey, and you'd have difficulty finding a boy that has this ability. 
And in fact they result in a wonderful differentiation in humankind, in the way that, in fact, no two of us are quite alike. 
And we try to track the changes that occur as the new skill or ability is acquired. 
From these studies we defined two great epochs of the plastic history of the brain. 
And that is the period in which the brain is setting up in its initial form its basic processing machinery. 
And I see the brain actually develop a processor that is specialized -- specialized for that complex array, a repertoire of sounds. 
He's successful in his retrieval of food with this tool every time. 
We can look down in the brain of the monkey. 
We've actually distorted the map by the exercise. 
And each one of them changes in ways that are specific to the skill or ability. 
It represents changes of hundreds of millions, possibly billions of synaptic connections in your brain. 
That is why you, in your many skills and abilities, are a unique specialist: a specialist that's vastly different in your physical brain in detail than the brain of an individual 100 years ago; enormously different in the details from the brain of the average individual 1,000 years ago. 
It's not English. It's noisy English. 
Changing it in detail. It takes about 30 hours on the average. 
You can see that most of the children on the left side of the distribution are moving into the middle or the right. 
This is a substantially large impact. 
I'm specifically interested in things like autism, and cerebral palsy, these great childhood catastrophes. 
But also in your future is brain aerobics. 
Get ready for it. It's going to be a part of every life not too far in the future, just like physical exercise is a part of every well organized life in the contemporary period. 
Of course a lot of people will ignore this advice. 
And one of the stories he told me so often when I was a young boy was of the first British atomic bomb test. 
What he was trying to do with me was to inspire me to protect the world, and show me just how fragile the world is. 
I love the place. 
Fresh water freezes at zero. 
I remember just trying to get out of the water. 
And for a swimmer, you need to feel your hands because you need to be able to grab the water and pull it through with you. 
We are going to actually have to take them off. 
And I remember looking into the ice, and there were big chunks of white ice in there, and the water was completely black. 
It's a very frightening, very, very frightening thought. 
It's all a little bit frightening, and emotional. 
The first thing we need to do is we need to break this problem down into manageable chunks. 
I've just come back from giving a series of speeches in some of the poorest townships in South Africa to young children as young as 10 years old. 
We need to believe in ourselves. 
But the most important thing we must do is, I think, we must all walk to the end of our lives and turn around, and ask ourselves a most fundamental question. 
You take about eight or so carbon atoms, about 20 hydrogen atoms, you put them together in exactly the right way and you get this marvelous liquid: very energy-dense and very easy to refine into a number of very useful products and fuels. 
But what about oil? Where is it in the energy system? 
And that continues into the future with the renewables that we're developing today, reaching maybe 30 percent of primary energy by mid century. 
I picked it up outside of Marble Falls, Texas. 
And it's different than this limestone, you can see that. 
Now, millions of abalone every year make this shell. 
It's the same stuff as this and the same stuff as this. 
And why? Because the lowly abalone is able to lay down the calcium carbonate crystals in layers, making this beautiful, iridescent mother of pearl. 
Very specialized material that the abalone self-assembles, millions of abalone, all the time, every day, every year. 
How the molecules are put together. 
Here's a piece of coal. 
No wonder that most of the most important international operators in Germany, but also in France and the UK and Scandinavia, everywhere, systematically bribed. 
They are not as good at bribing as many of their international competitors are, but they were not allowed to show their strengths, because the world was eaten up by grand corruption. 
In the first session -- we had three sessions over the course of two years. 
They even applaud it. 
The World Bank has turned from Saulus to Paulus; under Wolfensohn, they became, I would say, the strongest anti-corruption agency in the world. 
They have to have a much more transparent financial governance. 
And that's what it's about. 
We use portraiture as a way to deliver those lives, but that's it. 
And I thought really what we need is an elders program to just sit at the feet of amazing people and hear them talk. 
That's Barbara Walters and others like that, and we like that. 
And he had never appeared in public since that point. 
And she said, Well, something very weird was happening. 
I didn't know what was going on, but I was so part of the process of getting that out. 
These were people through their 90s. 
But after the interview, I got a call, very gruff voice, from a woman. 
Never ever get up on a stage with somebody who's modest, because all of these people have been assembled to listen to them, and they sit there and they say, Aw, shucks, it was an accident. 
The worst interview I ever did: William L. Shirer. 
And she stonewalled me. It was unbelievable. 
That's the problem here, and she's fighting me for that, and so then I asked her a question -- I didn't know how I was going to get out of it -- I asked her a question about her days as a playwright, and again, characteristically, instead of saying, Oh yes, I was a playwright, and this is what blah blah blah, she said, Oh, playwright. Everybody knows I was a playwright. 
She wanted the control of her final moment, and she did it amazingly. 
His father was an SOB, and, in fact, he was another comedian with an unhappy childhood, but then we were off and running. 
Again, some of you will know him, most of you won't, Dumas Malone. 
And here is this man who had given his whole life to uncovering Jefferson and connecting with him, and he said, Well ... -- I'm going to do a bad southern accent. 
I have a story, a story that I would like to share with you. 
And it's an African story. 
And so maybe you're thinking now, why, how, an Italian filmmaker based in Boston is so interested in this story? 
And I was born in Zambia. 
I have the good fortune of being a filmmaker-in-residence at the Center of Digital Imaging Arts at Boston University. 
There are several themes from the documentary, but they are re-edited and made for you, OK? 
Milverton Nwokedi: You cut a nice movie with just 10,000 dollars in Nigeria here. 
They can afford to watch their Robocop and whatever. 
Because nobody believed that Nollywood can come out of Africa. 
Narrator: Suspense, fun and intrigue. 
It's the blockbuster comedy. 
It is not what you hear, you know, from the Western press. 
Man: Let's go. 
Like they go, here, now, now, you see the gun there, but you won't see any guns shot, we use knock-out. 
Kevin Books Ikeduba: What I'm scared of is just the explosion will come up in my face. 
You know, this is Nollywood, where the magic lives. 
But always with a smile, always with an enthusiasm, that is incredible. 
The Nigerian filmmakers really, really, are doing what they like. 
And so it's a very, very important thing for them, and for their audiences. 
Filmmakers, friends of mine, they look at Nollywood and they say, Wow, they are doing what we really want to do, and make a buck and live with this job. 
No stories around the campfire. 
Difficult, eh? It's meaningless. 
I think that the key to a healthy society is a thriving community of storytellers, and I think that the Nigerian filmmakers really have proved this. 
Its not an added sequence, just some voices from Nollywood. 
And we know that there are more. 
They can be rented for pennies. 
You can be in a Lagos traffic jam and you can buy a movie or some bananas or some water. Yes. 
In fact, it appeared in a porno comic book, which is the slide on the right. 
On the left-hand side, I had the context of those little houses, and I tried to build a building that fit into that context. 
And then I did a law school for Loyola in downtown L.A. 
And it was my theory, or my point of view, that one didn't upstage the neighborhood -- one made accommodations. 
I mean, the story I tell is that I got mad at postmodernism -- at po-mo -- and said that fish were 500 million years earlier than man, and if you're going to go back, we might as well go back to the beginning. 
And so I started making these funny things. 
And the client said, Why no fish? 
It was a dialog with the context again. 
Couldn't find it. 
So ... 
And it's one of the nicest pieces I've ever made, I think. 
For reasons we don't want to talk about, it got delayed. 
I went around Toronto and found a bathtub like my grandmother's, and I put the fish in. 
And we've started to work on things. 
The highlight of the performance was at the end. 
And so I did a lot of dirty things with chain link, which nobody will forgive me for. 
It's in perspective and everything. 
But we were trying to collide our ideas, to put objects next to each other. 
Like a Morandi -- like the little bottles -- composing them like a still life. 
And he pushed that. 
And it was this interaction between that kind of, up-the-ante stuff that became pretty interesting. 
And I still think the Time magazine picture will be of the binoculars, you know, leaving out the -- what the hell. 
I said, If I can't get the craft that I want, I'll use the craft I can get. 
And it was all of one material, and the metal could go on the roof as well as the walls. 
I was given an opportunity to design an exhibit for the metalworkers' unions of America and Canada in Washington, and I did it on the condition that they become my partners in the future and help me with all future metal buildings, etc. etc. 
And then more metal and some chain link in Santa Monica -- a little shopping center. 
It gave me an opportunity to make a sculpture out of it. 
When you have to do something really cheaply, it's hard to get perfect corners and stuff. 
He didn't recommend me, by the way. 
I keep trying to make it work. 
It's never been finished. 
This is the city hall over here somewhere, and the courthouse. 
Sohio is on the axis here, and we followed the axis, and they're two kind of goalposts. 
And all this stuff at the bottom is a museum, and an idea for a very fancy automobile entry. 
And following that basic idea of the village, we changed it as we got into it. 
That's the living room. 
You come down from this level along the stairway, and you enter the bedroom here, going into the lake. 
These Stonehenge things were designed to give foreground and to create a greater depth in this shallow lot. 
I was trying to get around this plan coupe -- how do you do it? 
Jay Chiat is a glutton for punishment, and he hired me to do a house for him in the Hamptons. 
And then this is a kind of a shopping mall, with a rodeo and restaurants. 
It has a chamber hall. 
There's commercial at the ground floor. 
The acoustician in the competition gave us criteria, which led to this compartmentalized scheme, which we found out after the competition would not work at all. 
And the Ritz-Carlton Tower is being designed with exposed steel, non-fire proof, much like those old gas tanks. 
And the food wasn't as good as the stuff, and so it failed. 
Thank you very much. 
I know Bill Joy was talking to you about the wonders of carbon nanotubes, so I'm going to talk to you about the wonders of carbon macro-tubes, which is charcoal. 
What we wanted to do was we wanted to find a way to harness this waste resource and turn it into a fuel that would be something that people could easily cook with, something like charcoal. 
After some time, after setting it on fire, you seal it to restrict the oxygen that goes into the kiln, and then you end up with this carbonized material here. 
However, you can't burn this. It's too fine and it burns too quickly to be useful for cooking. 
So we had to try to find a way to form it into useful briquettes. 
Compared to the sugarcane charcoal, where we actually have to teach people how to form it into briquettes and you have the extra step of cooking the binder, this comes pre-briquetted. 
But this is one of the incredibly rare situations where you also have economic benefits. 
They can generate income from this. 
They can save the money that they were going to spend on charcoal, and they can produce excess and sell it in the market to people who aren't making their own. 
I mean the world where advanced building materials means cement roofing tiles that are made by hand, and where, when you work 10 hours a day, you're still only earning 60 dollars in a month. 
And more than half of you would be living on less than a dollar a day. 
Do you need to find entrepreneurs, or venture capitalists, or what do you need to take what you've got and get it to scale? 
These are some of my kids with a salad bar. 
And the very first thing was about regional food -- trying to eat food from within our region. 
We can't keep feeding our kids pesticides and herbicides and antibiotics and hormones. 
The USDA allows these antibiotics, these hormones and these pesticides in our food supply, and the USDA paid for this ad in Time magazine. 
It's no wonder, you know, we have criminals. 
What goes in is what we are. 
The CDC, the Center for Disease Control, has said, of the children born in the year 2000 -- those seven- and eight-year-olds today -- one out of every three Caucasians, one out of every two African-Americans and Hispanics are going to have diabetes in their lifetime. 
And it's because of what we feed them. 
This is the USDA portion size, that little, tiny thing. 
In case you can't tell, that's, like, pink Danish and some kind of cupcakes. 
In fact, this may be what a lot of parents serve, as opposed to -- this is what we try and serve. 
There's not a strawberry tree or a carrot bush. 
You're not going to get the next generation, or the generation after, to be able to think like this if they're not nourished. 
And these calendars really started to lay out my program. 
You know, we have to change it. 
We have to teach kids that if they're on a diet of refined sugar, they go up and down, just like if they're on a diet of crack. 
And we have to pull it all together. We have composting in all of our schools. 
Because, you know what, many of us are sort of at the end of our careers, and we need to be giving these kids -- these young kids, the next generation -- the tools to save themselves and save the planet. 
I had 90 employees. 
In this country, we're spending 110 billion dollars a year on fast food. 
That 8 billion comes down to two dollars and 49 cents -- that's what the government allocates for lunch. 
And those are the same kids who are going to be getting sick. 
Look how odd he looks with the eyebrows missing. 
Max has kindly donated his photograph to me. 
Our research has shown that the parents and close loved ones of these children adore them. 
We crave the approval of our peers. 
I'd like you all in the audience now to push your lower jaw forward. 
People know now that I'm enthusiastic, that I'm a happy person. 
He maintained a calm insouciance. 
We can categorize it like that. 
Because you might say, Well, this type of surgery might be regarded as cosmetic. 
I'll move it off, and we'll have a blank slide for those who are squeamish amongst you. 
And again, as I told you, if they have a caring family and good work life, then they can lead normal and fulfilled lives. 
So it's not simply a Western phenomenon. 
We make judgments on people's faces all the time. 
Good-looking people are always judged as being more friendly. 
This is an image of Ann who's had her right jaw removed and the base of her skull removed. 
So it's very valuable to have that tool in our armamentarium. 
But the patients are going to have to take drugs that suppress their immune system for the rest of their lives. 
We're still not curing enough patients -- it's the most disfiguring cancer. 
We still can't get rid of scars. 
Whereas I felt that when you design, you either improve or you create a detriment to the community in which you're designing in. 
Working within the United States, most people look at poverty and they see the face of a foreigner, but go live -- I live in Bozeman, Montana -- go up to the north plains on the reservations, or go down to Alabama or Mississippi pre-Katrina, and I could have shown you places that have far worse conditions than many developing countries I've been to. 
So in the past seven years -- this isn't just about nonprofit. 
What it showed me is that there's a grassroots movement going on of socially responsible designers who really believe that this world has got a lot smaller, and that we have the opportunity -- not the responsibility, but the opportunity -- to really get involved in making change. 
So it's really important that if we're designing and trying to create change, we build that change. 
And it wasn't doctors telling us this; it was actual villagers that we were staying with. 
We just don't know how to show this. 
And on the fourth week, the doctors come and they mow out an area, put a tensile structure on the top and when the doctors have finished treating and seeing patients and villagers, you cut down the clinic and you eat it. It's an Eat Your Own Clinic. 
And you have to keep the maintenance down. 
And so we decided to look at the idea of sports and create a youth sports center that doubled as an HIV/AIDS outreach center, and the coaches of the girls' team were also trained doctors. 
So this is the designer. He's out there working with the first ever women's soccer team in Kwa-Zulu Natal, Siyathemba, and they can tell it better. 
Video: Well, my name is Sisi, because I work at the African center. 
This was a connection, just a meeting with somebody who wanted to develop Africa's first telemedicine center, in Tanzania. 
This is a 370-dollar shelter that can be easily assembled. 
Designing housing. This house is going to go in in a couple of weeks. 
We put together very quickly a washroom. 
This is Shandra and the Calhouns. They're photographers who have documented the Lower Ninth for the last 40 years. 
One billion people live in abject poverty. 
If we do nothing about the housing crisis that's about to happen, in 20 years, one in three people will live in an unplanned settlement or a refugee camp. Look left, look right: one of you will be there. 
And I want this whole thing to work multi-lingually. 
The idea of needs-based competitions -- X-Prize for the other 98 percent, if you want to call it that. 
We also want to look at ways of matchmaking and putting funding partners together. 
There should be a sheet. I don't have time to read this, because I'm going to be yanked off. 
So I'm going to speak about a problem that I have and that's that I'm a philosopher. 
And I get hoots of derision and cackles and growls because they think, That's impossible! You can't explain consciousness. 
My late, lamented friend Bob Nozick, a fine philosopher, in one of his books, Philosophical Explanations, is commenting on the ethos of philosophy -- the way philosophers go about their business. 
I'm sure that people here who work on, say, climate change and global warming, or on the future of the Internet, encounter people who have very strong opinions about what's going to happen next. 
But with regard to consciousness, people seem to think, each of us seems to think, I am an expert. 
No other ingredients at all. We're just made of cells, about 100 trillion of them. 
The content -- there's color, there's ideas, there's memories, there's history. And somehow all that content of consciousness is accomplished by the busy activity of those hoards of neurons. 
So this is the problem. So I have to do a little bit of the sort of work that a lot of you won't like, for the same reason that you don't like to see a magic trick explained to you. 
It's one that I predicted in the last page or two of my 1991 book, Consciousness Explained, where I said if you did experiments of this sort, you'd find that people were unable to pick up really large changes. 
And as I walked towards the picture, I was expecting detail that wasn't there. 
You're familiar with a more recent technology, which is -- There, you can get a better view of the blobs. 
Now, what does your brain do when it takes the suggestion? 
I don't think so. Not a chance. But then, how on Earth is it done? 
It's the same thing. 
The brain isn't actually putting the detail in your head at all. 
Is the shape on the left the same as the shape on the right, rotated? 
Yes. 
And if you read that literature, one of the things that you really have to come to terms with is even when you're the subject in the experiment, you don't know. 
Well, that's where you have to go backstage and ask the magician. 
How many of you see that sort of boundary, with the Necker cube floating in front of the circles? 
Can you see it? 
When you see the cube one way, behind the screen, those boundaries go away. 
And I supposed that that was just a flat truth, always true. 
Let me just pause this for a second if I can. 
So now we're going to be subjects in the experiment. 
Audience: Yes. 
So 15.5 seconds is the median time for subjects in his experiment there. 
How many still don't see it? How many still don't see it? 
Thank you very much. 
And I ever met more humble people. 
The mosque where the respectful foreigner is showered with blessings and with tears, and welcomed as a gift. 
What do we know about the women 10 years after the war? 
Well, the thesis of The Bottom Billion is that a billion people have been stuck living in economies that have been stagnant for 40 years, and hence diverging from the rest of mankind. 
The last time the rich world got serious about developing another region was in the late 1940s. 
Yes, you tear up the Eleventh Commandment -- national sovereignty. 
We need to be at least as serious as we were then. 
The commodity booms are pumping unprecedented amounts of money into many, though not all, of the countries of the bottom billion. 
So, a mass of new discoveries. 
Just to give you one example: Angola alone is getting 50 billion dollars a year in oil revenue. 
So, here comes a bit of science, and this is a bit of science I've done since The Bottom Billion, so it's new. 
Come back 15 years later. 
You know how rights to resource extraction are being sold at the moment, how they've been sold over the last 40 years? 
A company flies in, does a deal with a minister. 
Thank you. 
I was an unlikely person to be doing this. 
I never studied sculpture, engineering or architecture. 
It's a self-portrait titled Wide Hips. 
Returning to India to work with those fishermen, we made a net of a million and a half hand-tied knots -- installed briefly in Madrid. 
My life was not going to be the same. 
Next challenge, the Biennial of the Americas in Denver asked, could I represent the 35 nations of the Western hemisphere and their interconnectedness in a sculpture? 
I read about the recent earthquake in Chile and the tsunami that rippled across the entire Pacific Ocean. 
I started my journey 30 years ago. 
And that also brought me to the fact that this poses such a risk to our society. 
And together they only form about 15 years of supply. 
But now, we have a real technology to do this. 
When they control their brain, they can control their pain. 
When you do, what do you want to control? 
You will be able to look at all the aspects that make you yourself, all your experiences. 
These are some of the areas we're working on today that I don't have time to go into in detail. 
But I want to leave with you the big question. 
We are the first generation that's going to be able to enter into, using this technology, the human mind and brain. 
What is worth dying for? 
We know that it's possible to live in a failed state, where everything that can go wrong does go wrong -- where mothers cannot feed their children, where strangers cannot find the basis for peaceful collaboration, where people are murdered indiscriminately. 
For instance, there are 21 states in our country where corporal punishment in the classroom is legal, where it is legal for a teacher to beat a child with a wooden board, hard, and raising large bruises and blisters and even breaking the skin. 
But we can ask the obvious question: Is it a good idea, generally speaking, to subject children to pain and violence and public humiliation as a way of encouraging healthy emotional development and good behavior? 
Now, many of you might worry that the notion of well-being is truly undefined, and seemingly perpetually open to be re-construed. 
When this statue was carved the average life expectancy was probably 30. 
does not tempt us to say that there are no truths to be known about human nutrition. 
Many people worry that a universal morality would require moral precepts that admit of no exceptions. 
And yet, chess is a domain of perfect objectivity. 
But what does voluntary mean in a community where, when a girl gets raped, her father's first impulse, rather often, is to murder her out of shame? 
Just let that fact detonate in your brain for a minute: Your daughter gets raped, and what you want to do is kill her. 
But if we are in a reflective mood, we can ask, Is this the perfect expression of psychological balance with respect to variables like youth and beauty and women's bodies? 
Whenever we are talking about facts certain opinions must be excluded. 
Paint your picture of what rolling the clock 50 years forward, 100 years forward, how you would like to think of the world, balancing moral progress with richness. 
But again, then we have to talk about well-being in a larger context. 
Sam, this is a conversation I would actually love to continue for hours. 
We don't have that, but maybe another time. Thank you for coming to TED. 
And then, within zoology, I took the course or the discipline of entomology, the science of insects. 
Because biological control phenomenon, you can see it in your backyard. 
So this phenomenon of natural control exists literally everywhere. 
So it's everywhere, and we need to know how to exploit it. 
What damage [does] it actually inflict on the plant? 
Insects, those six-legged organisms and spiders or mites, the eight-legged organisms. 
On your right-hand side you can see a cucumber leaf, and on the middle, cotton leaf, and on the left a tomato leaf with these little stipplings. 
By the way, it's springtime now in Israel. 
When temperature rises sharply, you can see those bad ones, those aphids, all over the plants, in your hibiscus, in your lantana, in the young, fresh foliage of the spring flush, so-called. 
This is all natural. This is all natural. 
Again, we'll start first with the pest: the thrips. 
This is a sweet pepper which is not consumable because it is suffering from a viral disease transmitted by those thrip adults. 
Many different parts. 
By the way, they have a very nice landscape -- you see the Jordanian Mountains on the one hand and the Jordan Valley on the other hand, and a good, mild winter and a nice, hot summer, which is an excellent condition to mass-produce those creatures. 
Here we come with those natural enemies in order to reverse a little bit of the wheel and to bring more natural balance to the agricultural plot by reducing those chemicals. 
In this table, you can actually see what is an impact of a successful biological control by good bugs. 
But if we go, for example, to this place, Southeast Israel, the Arava area above the Great Rift Valley, where the really top-notch -- the pearl of the Israeli agriculture is located, especially under greenhouse conditions, or under screenhouse conditions -- if you drive all the way to Eilat, you see this just in the middle of the desert. 
Step by step, it does narrow. 
So I'm saying it on behalf of all the biocontrol petitioners and implementers, in Israel and abroad, really give nature a chance. 
How can we understand what makes some societies more fragile than other societies? The problem is obviously relevant to our situation today, because today as well, there are some societies that have already collapsed, such as Somalia and Rwanda and the former Yugoslavia. There are also societies today that may be close to collapse, such as Nepal, Indonesia and Columbia. 
What is there that we can learn from the past that would help us avoid declining or collapsing in the way that so many past societies have? 
Why did they all end up dead? Well, in my five-point framework, the first item on the framework is to look for human impacts on the environment: people inadvertently destroying the resource base on which they depend. And in the case of the Viking Norse, the Vikings inadvertently caused soil erosion and deforestation, which was a particular problem for them because they required forests to make charcoal, to make iron. 
Or again, the collapse of the Soviet Union took place within a couple of decades, maybe within a decade, of the time when the Soviet Union was at its greatest power. 
So, this is a frequent theme: societies collapse very soon after reaching their peak in power. 
And I would expect that, if our human civilization carries on, then maybe in the next century people will be asking, why on earth did these people today in the year 2003 not see the obvious things that they were doing and take corrective action? 
One blueprint for trouble, making collapse likely, is where there is a conflict of interest between the short-term interest of the decision-making elites and the long-term interest of the society as a whole, especially if the elites are able to insulate themselves from the consequences of their actions. Where what's good in the short run for the elite is bad for the society as a whole, there's a real risk of the elite doing things that would bring the society down in the long run. 
So, that's one general conclusion about why societies make bad decisions: conflicts of interest. 
Instead, all the major threats facing us today are problems entirely of our own making. And since we made the problems, we can also solve the problems. That then means that it's entirely in our power to deal with these problems. 
So I think I'm actually the first one here -- I lead. 
And meanwhile, I use nonsense, as you can see. 
This was one of a series called Zany Afternoons, which became a book. 
But the zeppelin was the biggest thing that ever moved made by man. 
There's Moscow, Shirley. Hope they speak Esperanto! 
Those, for example, are Mark IV British tanks from 1916. 
Happy little story, isn't it? 
Anybody who was anybody had an apartment there. 
It's obviously modeled on the Titanic. 
I thought I could jazz it up a bit, have a little fun with it. 
This is the word side of my brain. 
And then when it ran, a lovely lady, an old lady named Mrs. Edgar Rosenberg -- if you know that name -- called me and said she loved the cover, it was so sweet. 
Pretty elegant. Nothing like a crash to end a joke. That completes my oeuvre. 
Okay, I'm going to show you again something about our diets. 
There's six million species of insects on this planet, six million species. 
There was an estimation, a conservative estimation, a couple of years ago that the U.S. economy benefited by 57 billion dollars per year. 
Small animals eat insects. 
And here you see me enjoying a meal with caterpillars, locusts, bee pupae -- delicacies. 
You're eating at least 500 grams per year. 
We're even doing this on purpose. 
Now the situation in the world is going to change for you and me, for everyone on this Earth. 
There was an FAO conference last October that was completely devoted to this. 
And we eat quite a lot of it. 
In the developing world it's much lower. 
So if you would be an entrepreneur, what would you do? 
I gave you at least four arguments in favor. 
There are entrepreneurs in the Netherlands that produce them, and one of them is here in the audience, Marian Peeters, who's in the picture. 
Well in the Netherlands, we have an innovative Minister of Agriculture, and she puts the insects on the menu in her restaurant in her ministry. 
Reset the three minutes, that's just not fair. 
I would still be on my bad hip. That was so disappointing. 
Great! Excellent! 
So no, suddenly I wasn't averse to butting any geezer off the list. 
They were desperate for volunteers because the average age of the volunteer at the hospital gift shop was 75. 
So, next thing you know, I had my bright blue volunteer vest, I had my photo ID, and I was fully trained by my 89-year-old boss. 
I draped them casually over the chair in the doctor's office. 
But, I'd like to ask you, how would you tell the time if you didn't have an iPhone? 
You know, I've always wanted one of these. 
And this one, this is a replica from a 15th-century device. 
So, tonight, if it's clear you'll be able to see the summer triangle. 
Step three is identify the star on the front of the device. 
He would know what time the sun would rise, and what time it would set. 
Probably not one made of brass. He would have one made out of wood, or paper. And the vast majority of this first computer was a portable device that you could keep in the back of your pocket. 
So, what does the astrolabe inspire? 
And what we gain with a new technology, of course, is precision and accuracy. 
I'm just going to show you how the robot works. 
So, even though there is nothing in nature that looks like this, really, we were inspired by biology and applying the principles of walking to this robot. Thus it's a biologically inspired robot. 
We want to fold up the legs and shoot it up for long-range motion. 
We developed our adaptive gait planner. 
Welcome to RoMeLa, the Robotics Mechanisms Laboratory at Virginia Tech. 
This robot is an amoeba robot. 
Robotic Air Powered Hand with Elastic Ligaments. 
We wanted to go tackle this problem in a very different direction. 
So, for example in Iraq, you know, the war zone, there is roadside bombs. Currently you send these remotely controlled vehicles that are armed. 
We actually have a fan club for the robot, DARwIn: Dynamic Anthropomorphic Robot with Intelligence. 
So, based on that success, the following year we did the proper mechanical design starting from kinematics. 
And thus, DARwIn I was born in 2005. 
Dennis Hong: So, there is actually a competition called RoboCup. 
We were the very first team in the United States that qualified in the humanoid RoboCup competition. 
We truly believe this is going to be the very first running humanoid robot in the United States. So, stay tuned. 
How do we develop these kinds of ideas? 
We have a fully autonomous vehicle that can drive into urban environments. We won a half a million dollars in the DARPA Urban Challenge. 
We also have the world's very first vehicle that can be driven by the blind. 
He gave a talk about how education and school kills creativity. 
For us roboticists, engineers and scientists, these tools, these are the courses and classes you take in class. 
These are all the tools that we need. 
Bertie County is kind of a prime example in the demise of rural America. 
There are more buildings that are empty or in disrepair than occupied and in use. 
He was brought in in October 2007 as the new superintendent to basically fix this broken school system. 
So in February of 2009, Dr. Zullinger invited us, Project H Design -- which is a non-profit design firm that I founded -- to come to Bertie and to partner with him on the repair of this school district and to bring a design perspective to the repair of the school district. 
We now call this place home. 
But beyond our personal reasons for wanting to be there, there is a huge need. 
It allows elementary-level students to learn core subjects through game play and activity and running around and screaming and being a kid. 
So the first batch of computers are being installed later this summer, and we're helping Dr. Zullinger develop some strategies around how we might connect the classroom and the home to extend learning beyond the school day. 
So we thought, what if you could bring back shop class, but this time orient the projects around things that the community needed, and to infuse shop class with a more critical and creative-design-thinking studio process. 
So over the course of two semesters, the Fall and the Spring, the students spend three hours a day every single day in our 4,500 square foot studio/shop space. 
So what Studio H might offer her is a way to develop skills so that she might give back in the most meaningful way. 
So for him, Studio H offers him a way to develop the skills he will need as an architect, everything from drafting to wood and metal construction to how to do research for a client. 
And going out into the community and interviewing your neighbors about what kind of food they buy and from where and why -- that's a homework assignment. 
Because, when you zoom out that far, you lose the ability to view people as humans. 
If you are a blind child in India, you will very likely have to contend with at least two big pieces of bad news. 
So I felt that I needed to do two things. 
Here's the eye with the opaque lens, the opaque lens extracted and an acrylic lens inserted. 
In fact, the story holds true even if you have a person who got sight after several years of deprivation. 
So, the way we study that is, let's say we find a child who has light sensitivity. 
And we've used this general approach to study many different visual proficiencies, but I want to highlight one particular one, and that is image parsing into objects. 
So, any image of the kind that you see on the left, be it a real image or a synthetic image, it's made up of little regions that you see in the middle column, regions of different colors, different luminances. 
And nobody knows how this integration happens, and that's the question we asked with Project Prakash. 
Doctor: What are their shapes? 
Doctor: Now? 
So we are creating Dylan, which is a computational system with an ambitious goal of taking in visual inputs of the same kind that a human child would receive, and autonomously discovering: What are the objects in this visual input? 
Here's what a baby-cam video looks like. 
What's amazing is that working with such highly degraded input, the baby, very quickly, is able to discover meaning in such input. 
Even before the ball gets to a place, the child is already looking there. 
So, to summarize: Prakash, in its five years of existence, it's had an impact in multiple areas, ranging from basic neuroscience plasticity and learning in the brain, to clinically relevant hypotheses like in autism, the development of autonomous machine vision systems, education of the undergraduate and graduate students, and most importantly in the alleviation of childhood blindness. 
You know, he's thinking, What am I getting myself into? 
And he said, No, no, really. You can. 
And no disabled person had ever done that -- run at a collegiate level. 
It was really, really hot. 
And it's the first -- I had just gotten these new sprinting legs that you see in that bio, and I didn't realize at that time that the amount of sweating I would be doing in the sock -- it actually acted like a lubricant and I'd be, kind of, pistoning in the socket. 
He kept me on the right track. 
Everyone was taking pictures -- What is this girl running on? 
I'm sitting there, like, Oh, my god. Oh, my god. 
So they call us out and, you know -- Ladies, you have one minute. 
And I had to think, Why did I do this? 
You know, show us more than one set of legs. 
No, these are my cosmetic legs, actually, and they're absolutely beautiful. 
It has a shock absorber in it so it, like, Shhhh, makes this neat sound when you jump around on it. All right. 
In these. 
For me, while I'm such a serious athlete on the track, I want to be feminine off the track, and I think it's so important not to be limited in any capacity, whether it's, you know, your mobility or even fashion. 
I mean, I love the fact that I can go in anywhere and pick out what I want -- the shoes I want, the skirts I want -- and I'm hoping to try to bring these over here and make them accessible to a lot of people. 
Two weeks ago, Aimee was up for the Arthur Ashe award at the ESPYs. 
They didn't even want to touch that one. They just did it. 
What we're looking at here is the insidious cost of ringtone piracy. 
But now you can find out all about -- unfortunately, my weight is a little higher than that, but -- all about what happens. 
So I think in terms of the fact that math has been liberated from calculating. 
It's the chore. 
Computers allow us to do that -- and this is not a small problem by any means. 
That's an amazing amount of human endeavor. 
And I'll say, Hmm, not sure. I'll think about it roughly. 
Well one of them is, they say, you need to get the basics first. 
That somehow, if you use a computer, it's all mindless button-pushing, but if you do it by hand, it's all intellectual. 
Might have been 50 years ago, but it isn't anymore. 
Why are we using computers to show a student how to solve a problem by hand that the computer should be doing anyway? 
Same principles applied -- calculations, harder. 
So the problem we've really got in math education is not that computers might dumb it down, but that we have dumbed-down problems right now. 
So if you go through lots of examples, you can get the answer, you can understand how the basics of the system work better. 
So programming is the way I think we should be doing that. 
This was an example I built for my daughter. 
You can see that this is a very early step into limits and differential calculus and what happens when you take things to an extreme -- and very small sides and a very large number of sides. 
And yet, that's a really important practical view of the world. 
It's like the land and the king  they're inseparable, they are one. 
The contract is the same as with real word objects in real world containers. 
And finally, to pull out all the stops, this is a system called Urp, for urban planners, in which we give architects and urban planners back the models that we confiscated when we insisted that they use CAD systems. 
It projects down digital shadows, as you see here. 
There are inter-shadowing studies that children can operate, even though they don't know anything about urban planning: To move a building, you simply reach out your hand and you move the building. 
This work is 15 years old. 
And the great thing about it was that Alex was so dedicated to the idea of verisimilitude, the idea that the putative 2054 that we were painting in the film be believable, that he allowed us to take on that design work as if it were an R&amp;D effort. 
And the result is sort of gratifyingly perpetual. 
People still reference those sequences in Minority Report when they talk about new UI design. 
These are logistics elements that are scattered across the United States. 
This is a system called TAMPER, which is a slightly whimsical look at what the future of editing and media manipulation systems might be. 
We'll go over to Jacques Tati here and grab our blue friend and put him down on the table as well. 
Let me leave with one final thought, and that is that one of the greatest English language writers of the last three decades suggested that great art is always a gift. 
Can it be for every man, or is this just for corporations and movie producers? 
That's our goal entirely. 
So this is the inevitability about it. 
I just like to dive right in and become sort of a human guinea pig. 
It was a wonderful experience. 
You can just Google it. 
As I say in my book, I'm Jewish in the same way the Olive Garden is Italian. 
The first thing I did was I got a stack of bibles. 
I had Christian bibles. 
So, I wanted to follow that rule. 
And there were two types of laws that were particularly challenging. 
But it's a big part of the Bible, so I figured I had to address it. 
I wanted to see how dressing biblically affected my mind. 
And I explained my project, and he said, Well, I am an adulterer, are you going to stone me? 
They really did a fantastic job. 
I wanted it to be about religion in America. 
So, this was very inspiring to me. 
I recommend Jim Wallis and Tony Campolo. 
They're very inspiring leaders, even though I disagree with much of what they say. 
And I would say, But that's crazy. 
The key is to pick and choose the right parts. 
There's the phrase called cafeteria religion, and the fundamentalists will use it in a denigrating way, and they'll say, Oh, it's just cafeteria religion. 
You're just picking and choosing. 
The story starts in Kenya in December of 2007, when there was a disputed presidential election, and in the immediate aftermath of that election, there was an outbreak of ethnic violence. 
And she quickly said, It's too much. 
And enough people looked at it and found it valuable enough that the programmers who created Ushahidi decided they were going to make it open source and turn it into a platform. 
And it represents the ability of the world's population to volunteer and to contribute and collaborate on large, sometimes global, projects. 
And once they've done it, they can do it again, and they could work on getting it better. 
Even with the sacred printing press, we got erotic novels 150 years before we got scientific journals. 
So before I talk about what is, I think, the critical difference between LOLcats and Ushahidi, I want to talk about their shared source. 
At pick-up time the teachers, who have been with your children all day, would like you to be there at the appointed hour to take your children back. 
Late pick-ups went up every week for the next four weeks until they topped out at triple the pre-fine average, and then they fluctuated at between double and triple the pre-fine average for the life of the fine. 
They were operating with social constraints rather than contractual ones. 
It's value created by the participants but enjoyed by society as a whole. 
The goals set out by Ushahidi are not just to make life better for the participants, but to make life better for everyone in the society in which Ushahidi is operating. 
We've got a choice before us. 
And may it run forever, because it gives people like me a living. 
There were two Sundays in between. But of course, Sundays are church days, so you don't play on Sundays. And one day it rained, so they all sat around making friends with each other. 
And then you worked out your strategy, and you came and fought the next day, and you went back home again. 
Take a look: You could play it in the dump with some rocks over there, you could play it in a little alley -- you couldn't hit square anywhere, because the bat hit the wall; don't forget the air conditioning and the cable wires. 
As you can see, you can play anywhere. 
And we won this World Cup in 1983. 
And so we allowed multinationals into India. 
We cut customs duties, we reduced import duties, and we got all the multinationals coming in, with multinational budgets, who looked at per-capita income and got very excited about the possibilities in India, and were looking for a vehicle to reach every Indian. 
But what a game we had, M. S. Dhoni got it right in the air, but Misbah-ul-Haq, what a player. 
A massive, massive success: India, the world TT champions. 
So, it was a different India. 
Now, all of the sudden, if you were to bowl a shot -- if Mumbai were to bowl a shot, for example, they needn't go to Kalbadevi or Shivaji Park or somewhere to source them, they could go to Trinidad. 
So, he played in Hyderabad, went, straight after the game, went from the stadium to Hyderabad airport, sat in a private corporate jet -- first refueling in Portugal, second refueling in Brazil; he was in West Indies in time. 
They started going to the cricket to watch Shah Rukh Khan. 
For a long time, India was this country of poverty, dust, beggars, snake charmers, filth, Delhi belly -- people heard Delhi belly stories before they came. 
Hopefully, it'll make everyone richer, hopefully it'll make the game bigger and hopefully it'll give cricket commentators more time in the business. 
We all make decisions every day; we want to know what the right thing is to do -- in domains from the financial to the gastronomic to the professional to the romantic. 
And surely, if somebody could really tell us how to do exactly the right thing at all possible times, that would be a tremendous gift. 
This is what statisticians technically call a damn fine bet. 
Calculating odds would seem to be something rather easy: there are six sides to a die, two sides to a coin, 52 cards in a deck. 
It's because the mind recalls words by their first letter. 
Why in the world would anybody ever play the lottery? 
Well, there are many answers, but one answer surely is, we see a lot of winners. Right? When this couple wins the lottery, or Ed McMahon shows up at your door with this giant check -- how the hell do you cash things that size, I don't know. 
When was the last time that you saw extensive interviews with everybody who lost? 
You can't say to yourself, I'm as likely to win as anybody, because you're not as likely to win as Leroy. 
Because they had the sense that declining wages are worse than rising wages, even when the total amount of wages is higher in the declining period. Here's another nice example. 
Here's a $2,000 Hawaiian vacation package; it's now on sale for 1,600. 
This tendency to compare to the past is causing people to pass up the better deal. In other words, a good deal that used to be a great deal is not nearly as good as an awful deal that was once a horrible deal. 
Now, just in case you're not getting it, here's a schematic of what happened, OK? 
The difference is that when you lost the ticket you say to yourself, I'm not paying twice for the same thing. 
Nonetheless, their predictions are perverted by a comparison that then does not carry through and change their experience. 
When you go to buy groceries with it, it doesn't go, I'm the money saved on the car stereo, or, I'm the dumb money saved on the car. It's money. 
And if a drive across town is worth 100 bucks, it's worth 100 bucks no matter what you're saving it on. People don't think that way. 
Well, by and large people are enormously impatient. 
Imagine that you can have 50 dollars in a year -- that's 12 months -- or 60 dollars in 13 months. 
This is just a graph showing the results that I just suggested you would show if I gave you time to respond, which is, people find that the subjective value of 50 is higher than the subjective value of 60 when they'll be delivered in now or one month, respectively -- a 30-day delay -- but they show the reverse pattern when you push the entire decision off into the future a year. 
What causes the bug? Is it the drama of the event -- that it's so spectacular? 
I don't want to say -- please, I'm going to get quoted somewhere as saying, Terrorism is fine and we shouldn't be so distressed. 
What I'm saying is that, surely, rationally, our distress about things that happen, about threats, should be roughly proportional to the size of those threats and threats to come. 
There's no question. 
And so we evolved these responses. 
It turns out that the value of buying a lottery ticket is not winning. 
That's what you think it is. All right? 
And as a result, many people look at economists as stupid people. 
It's the sequel to An Inconvenient Truth, and it explores all the solutions that will solve the climate crisis. 
Or, we can scroll through the pages at the bottom. 
Mike Matas: And so throughout the whole book, Al Gore will walk you through and explain the photos. 
This photo, you can you can even see on an interactive map. 
And while it's playing, we can pinch and peak back at the page, and the movie keeps playing. 
This is very strange for me, because Im not used to doing this: I usually stand on the other side of the light, and now I'm feeling the pressure I put other people into. And it's hard ... 
So, well go with the first piece. 
Court: I don't want to get rid of you. 
Boy: Look man, reading don't feed no one. 
Boy: Arguing with you is a waste of time, Marcus. 
Marcus: When a man resorts to profanities, its a sure sign of his inability to express himself. 
Did you ever move your fuckin' ass from Hollywood to go and film something real? 
The first piece was, really, there's a young woman talking about Nigeria, that she has a feeling she'll be happy there. 
So that whole thing, that whole childhood echoes and takes me into the next piece. 
Commander: Soldiers, you are going to fight a battle, so you must get ready and willing to die. 
C: Success, the change is only coming through the barrel of the gun. 
I dont remember how we got there. 
The injection made us not to have mind. 
Various Voices: You will die! You will die!  
Onicha: Ezra!  
Why you giving these to me? 
Mr. Ezra Gelehun, please stand. 
No, we dont. 
Mr. Gelehun, I'd like to remind you, you're not on trial here today. 
You are not on trial. 
E: So you are a liar. 
Thank you. 
In the process of my research, I actually spent a bit of time in Sierra Leone researching this. 
I met psychosocial workers who worked with them. 
Frank Gehry: I listened to this scientist this morning. 
I mean it is astonishing for an artist, for an architect, to become actually an icon and a legend in their own time. 
And I realized when I'd come into the meetings with these corrugated metal and chain link stuff, and people would just look at me like I'd just landed from Mars. 
And like the playwright said the other day -- I could relate to him: you're not sure. 
Yeah. 
There aren't many people around that are really involved with architecture as clients. 
If you think about the world, and even just in this audience, most of us are involved with buildings. 
I knew Craig and respected him. 
I knew you'd ask that question. 
I tried to understand that language as a beginning, as a place to jump off, and there was so much of it being done by spec builders and it was trivialized so much that it wasn't ... 
Siza, on the other hand, continued in Portugal where the real stuff was and evolved a modern language that relates to that historic language. 
I tried to get him a couple of jobs and they didn't pan out. 
Where you ... It's like jazz: you improvise, you work together, you play off each other, you make something, they make something. 
Richard Koshalek: [Unclear] starts from 2004. 
You can come to the opening. I'll invite you. 
I'd seen drawings you had presented here at TED. 
They came for three days. 
You've all heard the Frank Lloyd Wright story, when the woman called and said, Mr. Wright, I'm sitting on the couch and the water's pouring in on my head. 
RSW: Didn't get a laugh. 
What do you bring to it? 
That's what reminded me of it. 
Just before going to lunch with the mayor, we went to the harbor commissioner. 
We sat down, and we had a drink of water and everybody was quiet. 
So, I got up. 
They just brought us there to hustle this group, you know, to create a project. 
Because I want to get a standing ovation like everybody, so ... 
But, reliable Dutchman --  -- Fantastic! 
And this was the text -- In words as fashion the same rule will hold/ Alike fantastic if too new or old/ Be not the first by whom the new are tried/ Nor yet the last to lay the old aside. 
So, it was going nowhere. 
That's what happens. 
Silas usually has a better touch with his choice of quotations. 
Don't be trendy if you want to be serious. 
But, we don't have time. 
There were 10 artists invited to participate in it, and it was one of those things where it was extremely competitive and I didn't want to be embarrassed, so I worked very hard on this. 
But I was absolutely stuck on the idea of art is and trying to determine what art was. 
We've watched the financial markets that we uniquely create -- these markets that were supposed to be foolproof -- we've watched them kind of collapse before our eyes. 
And of course, if we are put in environments where we can't deal with it, in some sense makes sense that we actually might mess certain things up. 
It feels like we might almost just be built to make errors in certain ways. 
So this is the question my students and I wanted to get at. 
What if we put Holly into the same context as humans? 
Because, you know, it's great for us, but bad for humans. 
They were these kind of weird things. 
So the monkeys get really good at this. 
The monkeys would rip-off the tokens at every available opportunity -- from each other, often from us -- you know, things we didn't necessarily think we were introducing, but things we spontaneously saw. 
We were a little impatient so we wanted to sort of speed things up a bit. 
Sounds great, but you get one more choice to earn a little bit more money. 
Your other option is a bit safe. Your just going to get some money for sure. 
So see what your intuition is here. 
Most people say, why should I be risky when I can get 1,500 dollars for sure? 
And now imagine that I have you make another choice But this time, it's a little bit worse. 
They actually tend to go a little risky. 
And this means that sometimes we'll actually switch our preferences to avoid this. 
What you saw in that last scenario is that subjects get risky because they want the small shot that there won't be any loss. 
They're why stock investors hold onto losing stocks longer -- because they're evaluating them in relative terms. 
The question we were interested in is whether the monkeys show the same biases. 
Sometimes the monkeys get no bonus -- so this is a bonus of zero. 
Now, the monkeys meet two guys who aren't giving them bonuses; they're actually giving them less than they expect. 
So, you know, a little bad -- Sorry, sorry, sorry. 
When you're watching your stocks plummet into the red, when you're watching your house price go down, you're not going to be able to see that in anything but old evolutionary terms. 
But we have to recognize that we have those limitations. 
We have this Great North. And there was a pretty small population, and my father was an avid outdoorsman. 
But what I think it was telling me is that we are this transient thing that's happening, and that the nature that you see out there -- the untouched shorelines, the untouched forest that I was able to see -- really bring in a sense of that geological time, that this has gone on for a long time, and we're experiencing it in a different way. 
This rebirth of grass. And then I went out for years trying to photograph the pristine landscape. 
So there's this thing that is pulling me in both directions. 
But we've become totally disconnected from them. 
That if we keep putting things, through industrial and urban existence, back into the system -- if we keep doing that -- we can continue on. 
Because I think everything that we're involved in -- our clothing, our cars, our roads, and everything -- are directly a result. 
I'm going to move to some pictures of China. 
So this created a reservoir 600 kilometers long, one of the largest reservoirs ever created. 
And again, the rebuilding of the city -- to me, it was sad to see that they didn't really grab a lot of, I guess, what we know here, in terms of urban planning. 
This is a shot in one of the biggest squares in Guangdong -- and this is where a lot of migrant workers are coming in from the country. 
So this is a pink uniform at this factory. It's a shoe factory. 
And they have dorms for the workers. 
This is one with 45,000, so every lunch, there's about 12,000 coming through for lunch. 
They sit down; they have about 20 minutes. 
They're not getting enough, so they're not going to move. 
Shanghai was a very intriguing city -- it's exploding on a level that I don't think any city has experienced. 
In fact, even Shenzhen, the economic zone -- one of the first ones -- 15 years ago was about 100,000 people, and today it boasts about 10 to 11 million. 
So this is three of the visible blast furnaces within that shot. 
I think one of the issues that we here are facing with China, is that they're using a lot of the latest production technology. 
But that is the trick that they've got right now, that they're winning with, is that they're using all the latest technologies and extrusion machines, and bringing all the components into play, but the assembly is where they're actually bringing in -- the country workers are very willing to work. They want to work. 
I had to have them freeze for 10 seconds to get this shot. 
There are 500 of these machines; they're worth about 200,000 dollars each. 
So you have about 12 people running this, and they're just inspecting it -- and they're just walking the lines. 
This was one of the biggest factories I've ever seen. 
But this is what happens to most of the computers. 
And as much as there are great things around the corner -- and it's palpable in this room -- of all of the things that are just about to break that can solve so many problems, I'm really hoping that those things will spread around the world and will start to have a positive effect. 
Some of you might know, he's a TEDster -- Stephen Sagmeister and I are working on some layouts. And this is still in preliminary stages; these aren't the finals. But these images, with Worldchanging.com, can be placed into any kind of media. 
So we're looking at this as trying to build out. 
And anything that you can do to promote that would be fantastic. 
That would be fantastic. So those are my three wishes. 
And I'd like to start at the very beginning. 
The more stuff that's mine, the better. 
And of course, it's your stuff if it's broken. 
And they extract the metals by hand. 
So about 20 years ago, I literally started in my garage tinkering around, trying to figure out how to separate these very similar materials from each other, and eventually enlisted a lot of my friends, in the mining world actually, and in the plastics world, and we started going around to mining laboratories around the world. 
And instead of plopping down several hundred million dollars to build a chemical plant that will only make one type of plastic for its entire life, our plants can make any type of plastic we feed them. 
We use a very highly automated process to sort those plastics, not only by type, but by grade. 
So I hope I've changed the way you look at at least some of the stuff in your life. 
Mother nature wastes very little, reuses practically everything. 
And I hope that you stop looking at yourself as a consumer -- that's a label I've always hated my entire life -- and think of yourself as just using resources in one form, until they can be transformed to another form for another use later in time. 
Now, it was not always wonderful at that table. 
In fact, you could come down to the tree to get your gifts and get ready to sing, and then get ready for breakfast without even taking a bath or getting dressed, except that daddy messed it up. 
Now that's compassion. 
So, let me tell you, I kind of look at the world this way. 
I see -- always, it stirs my heart -- a picture of Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. 
This is the picture. They said, It's going to be too volatile for you to go. 
We are so connected that we must treat each other as if an action toward you is an action toward myself. 
And whatever else is needed, I will provide it and pay for it when I return. 
This always seemed to me to be a deepening of the sense of what it means to be a Good Samaritan. 
But now, to be a Good Samaritan -- and I always say, and to be a good American -- for me, is not simply to congratulate myself for the individual acts of care. 
And if mama eternal has taught us correctly, this song will make sense, not only to those of us who are a part of this gathering, but to all who sign the charter for compassion. 
I just want to say my name is Emmanuel Jal. 
And also telling it like now. 
And also, the easiest one was when I was doing it in form of a music. 
I wanted to revenge for my village. 
My every moment. 
Run, duck, play dead and hide. 
But still as I wonder, I won't go under. 
I was ready to eat. 
Give us tools. Give the farmers tools. 
And now we have a couple in university. 
 What would I be?   If Emma never rescued me?   What would I be?   Another starving refugee   What would I be?   If Emma never rescued me?   Yeah, Yeah   Yeah, I would have probably died from starvation   Or some other wretched disease   I would have grown up with no education   Just another refugee   Thank you. 
We've used fear, if you like, to grab people's attention. 
A deer freezes very, very still, poised to run away. 
And I think that's what we're doing when we're asking people to engage with our agenda around environmental degradation and climate change. 
And unsurprisingly, people all around the world say that what they want is happiness, for themselves, for their families, their children, their communities. 
Okay, they think money is slightly important. 
It thinks in terms of how much bang do we get for our buck. 
They are doing that on a quarter of the resources that are used typically in [the] Western world -- a quarter of the resources. 
What's happening in Costa Rica? 
99 percent of their electricity comes from renewable resources. 
And so in strict happy-planet methodology, we've become less efficient at turning our ultimate scarce resource into the outcome we want to. 
A child entering school today will be my age in 2050. 
And I put it to you, that is not business as usual. 
I think we want the lot of humanity to keep on increasing. 
And the point of these is they are, not quite, the secrets of happiness, but they are things that I think happiness will flow out the side from. 
Keep building them. 
The second one is be active. 
Based on a lot of evidence for mindfulness, cognitive behavioral therapy, [very] strong for our well being. 
They don't need a lot of material goods to be satisfied. 
All that being good and no real credit for it. 
So I said, Well, Mom and Dad, what about Santa Claus? 
Santa would come to our house while we were at nine o'clock high mass on Christmas morning, but only if all of us kids did not make a fuss. 
There's only one obvious conclusion to reach from this mountain of evidence: our family was too strange and weird for even Santa Claus to come visit, and my poor parents were trying to protect us from the embarrassment, this humiliation of rejection by Santa, who was jolly -- but, let's face it, he was also very judgmental. 
They had to fit two criteria: they had to be old enough to be able to understand the whole concept of the age of reason, and not yet seven. 
I just realized that the age of reason starts when you turn seven, and then you're capable of committing any and all sins against God and man. And Bill said, So? And then I said, So, you're six. You have a whole year to do anything you want to and God won't notice it. And he said, So? And I said, So? So everything! And I turned to run. I was so angry with him. 
And she said, Listen. The cut-off date to start kindergarten was September 15. 
So, I took the bus downtown to get the new Libra poster. 
Now, I was raised in the Pacific Northwest, around a lot of Church of Latter-day Saints people and, you know, I've worked with them and even dated them, but I never really knew the doctrine or what they said to people when they were out on a mission, and I guess I was, sort of, curious, so I said, Well, please, come in. And they looked really happy, because I don't think this happens to them all that often. 
And I sat them down, and I got them glasses of water -- OK, I got it. I got them glasses of water. 
And they told me this story all about this guy named Lehi, who lived in Jerusalem in 600 BC. 
I wanted to say, OK, don't start with this story. 
I said, Oh, come on. I mean, even if women tried to have a baby every single year from the time they were 15 to the time they were 45, assuming they didn't die from exhaustion, it still seems like some women would have some time left over to hear the word of God. And they said, No. 
And they said, Oh -- hey, well, we also believe that when you go to heaven you get your body restored to you in its best original state. 
Or, if you'd gone blind, you could see. 
If someone came to my door and I was hearing Catholic theology and dogma for the very first time, and they said, We believe that God impregnated a very young girl without the use of intercourse, and the fact that she was a virgin is maniacally important to us --  -- and she had a baby, and that's the son of God, I mean, I would think that's equally ridiculous. 
Yes, breast cancer. 
Overcome with the enormity of it all and the complete feeling of loss of control, I shed copious tears and asked my dear husband, Jayant. 
I danced between chemo and radiation cycles and badgered him to fit it to my performing dance schedule. 
It's the power of bringing ourselves to the attention of something that so animates you, so moves you, that something even like cancer becomes insignificant. 
It's the power of an image. 
Nobody really did anything with it, pretty much. 
They brought all sorts of different computers with them. 
So that, in all that diversity, if I wanted to figure out how to build something out of a bit of this and a bit of this, everything I looked into, I had to connect to some new machine, I had to learn to run some new program, I would find the information I wanted in some new data format. 
And that is what has made it most fun. 
They're much more than we'd originally imagined when we put together the little, initial website that we started off with. 
One of the great -- yes a lot of people have seen it -- one of the great TED Talks. 
Hans put up this presentation in which he showed, for various different countries, in various different colors -- he showed income levels on one axis and he showed infant mortality, and he shot this thing animated through time. 
So, he'd taken this data and made a presentation which just shattered a lot of myths that people had about the economics in the developing world. 
It had underground all the data OK, data is brown and boxy and boring, and that's how we think of it, isn't it? 
In this case, Hans had put the data together he had found from all kinds of United Nations websites and things. 
We're using them for people, we're using them for places, we're using them for your products, we're using them for events. 
I wrote an article entitled Linked Data a couple of years ago and soon after that, things started to happen. 
OK, we have to ask for raw data now. 
Practice that. It's important because you have no idea the number of excuses people come up with to hang onto their data and not give it to you, even though you've paid for it as a taxpayer. 
The people who are going to solve those -- the scientists -- they have half-formed ideas in their head, they try to communicate those over the web. 
And that is what linked data is all about. 
You get this really huge power out of it. 
Then I realized that what I was getting from giving was a narcissistic hit -- that I felt good about myself. 
Right now, as Bill McDonough has pointed out, the objects that we buy and use have hidden consequences. 
And I spent a couple of weeks going around with a social work agency that ministered to the homeless. And I realized seeing the homeless through their eyes that almost all of them were psychiatric patients that had nowhere to go. They had a diagnosis. It made me -- what it did was to shake me out of the urban trance where, when we see, when we're passing someone who's homeless in the periphery of our vision, it stays on the periphery. 
One day soon after that -- it was a Friday -- at the end of the day, I went down -- I was going down to the subway. It was rush hour and thousands of people were streaming down the stairs. 
And, anyway, the next morning we had to go along to the jeweler and get it cut off. 
And then, yes, all these other ones as well. I mean, how do you do this? 
So I suppose you're not going to be able to kick me off the stage, since you asked the question. 
So, just help us with some of the numbers. 
I mean, how big is the group overall? 
No, I mean, I think -- CA: But is that your hair? 
OK. 
Of course. 
Yeah, well, 25 years earlier, we'd launched the Sex Pistols' God Save The Queen, and I'd certainly never expected that 25 years later -- that she'd actually knight us. 
Well, I got pulled out of the sea I think six times by helicopters, so -- and each time, I didn't expect to come home to tell the tale. 
But the ends of all those balloon trips were, you know -- something seemed to go wrong every time, and on that particular occasion, the more experienced balloonist who was with me jumped, and left me holding on for dear life. 
Yeah. No, I put on my oxygen mask and stood on top of the balloon, with my parachute, looking at the swirling clouds below, trying to pluck up my courage to jump into the North Sea, which -- and it was a very, very, very lonely few moments. 
The years -- and until I stopped looking at the polls, you were sort of regarded as this great hero in the U.K. and elsewhere. 
OK, this isn't exactly hardball. OK. 
Didn't -- weren't you just terrible at school? 
And generally, the people would say, oh, well that's bad news. 
Did this really happen? 
And making us go on wonderful, long bike rides. 
But is there a risk here? 
I was actually prosecuted under two quite ancient acts in the U.K. 
We changed it to social diseases and people came along with acne and spots, but nobody came with VD any more. 
And John Mortimer, the playwright, defended us. 
So seriously, is there a dark side? 
There was a nasty biography written about you by someone. 
I mean, do you think about life balance? 
But the problem with capitalism is extreme wealth ends up in the hands of a few people, and therefore extreme responsibility, I think, goes with that wealth. 
And is there a risk that the kind of the business heroes of the West get so excited about -- I mean, they're used to having an idea, getting stuff done, and they believe profoundly in their ability to make a difference in the world. 
But I think business leaders can bring their entrepreneurial know-how and help governments approach things slightly differently. 
Well, Richard, when I was starting off in business, I knew nothing about it and I also was sort of -- I thought that business people were supposed to just be ruthless and that that was the only way you could have a chance of succeeding. 
So I would like to thank you for that inspiration, and for coming to TED today. Thank you. 
I would say with a great smile, I will definitely pass. 
He just started asking, Where did you buy the radio? How much is it? 
And he said, Oh, I teach at a college of arts. 
It can be ruins, or it can be music, or it can be painting or drawing or writing, whatever it is. 
But it is just a kind of trace of that time. 
So it took about 24 hours to get this line. 
So, what we see is just what we think often, and most of the time, we don't see what it is. 
So this work from this period is mostly like -- you know, this is a work called Light Makes Dark. 
This is an exact negative. 
But a solution arrived after being quiet and not working for about six, seven months, in the restroom, when I was changing the air freshener that goes from solid substance to vapor. 
This is the work I made out of that material. 
So I told them, I'd like to start an air freshener company. 
So, I just started doing this work to inquire further about how to sculpt the space between this object and there. 
Because, as a visual artist, if I'm seeing this and I'm seeing that -- but how to sculpt this, you know? 
It's the same in marketing. 
It only took one robust observation from Copernicus to blow that idea out of the water. 
Take BP -- they spent millions of pounds over many years building up its credentials as an environmentally friendly brand, but then one little accident. 
The same is true of marketing. 
It makes this distribution of energy a democratizing force, which is ultimately good for your brand. 
I see you're all up on the history of hurdy-gurdy -- vielle  roue. 
It's also the only instrument that uses this kind of technique. 
And today, the hurdy-gurdy is used in all sorts of music -- traditional folk music, dance, contemporary and world music -- in the U.K., in France, in Spain and in Italy. 
But the moment you fall in love, you become extremely sexually possessive of them. 
But the main characteristics of romantic love are craving: an intense craving to be with a particular person, not just sexually, but emotionally. 
And then, the very last question I would ask them -- I would always have to work myself up to this question, because I am not a psychologist. 
The motor of the brain. It's a drive. 
And in fact, I think it's more powerful than the sex drive. 
You know, you can feel it when you're just driving along in your car. 
I think romantic love evolved to enable you to focus your mating energy on just one individual at a time, thereby conserving mating time and energy. 
They've got incredible people skills, negotiating skills. 
They're highly imaginative. 
And -- basic math!  
We are seeing the rise of female sexual expression. 
Indeed, arranged marriages are on their way off this braid of human life. 
I even think that marriages might even become more stable because of the second great world trend. 
It may decline some more. 
Not at any time on this planet have women been so educated, so interesting, so capable. 
However, there's always kinds of complications in this. 
In these three brain systems: lust, romantic love and attachment -- don't always go together. 
But I want to tell you a story about -- to illustrate. 
I've been carrying on here about the biology of love. 
And, Wasn't that rickshaw driver handsome! 
These circuits are deeply embedded in the human brain. 
They're going to survive as long as our species survives on what Shakespeare called this mortal coil. 
One of the threads that seems to have come through loud and clear in the last couple of days is this need to reconcile what the Big wants -- the Big being the organization, the system, the country -- and what the Small wants -- the individual, the person. 
Charlie Ledbetter, yesterday, I thought, talked very articulately about this need to bring consumers, to bring people into the process of creating things. 
And that's what I want to talk about today. 
3:19. 
I think something happens. I think a head may appear in a second. 
We showed them the whole cut, and they were all completely, what is this? 
And the point is when you lie in a hospital bed all day, all you do is look at the roof, and it's a really shitty experience. 
It's a history of invention based around this. 
When we actually went and watched this procedure taking place -- and I'll explain this in a second -- it became very obvious that there was a human dimension to this that they really weren't recognizing. 
Why do we line up the square milk carton with the square fence? 
Because we kind of have to -- we're just compelled to. 
We don't know why, but we do. 
So what is this? I hear you all ask. No, I don't. 
So what seems like a very clunky product is, in fact, incredibly useful. 
These guys are using this very successfully. 
How far you can anticipate, what follows from it, what are the threats, what are the possibilities, the challenges, the opportunities? 
And all the components are there which are now in common parlance, in our vocabulary, you know, 30-odd years later: wind energy, recycling, biomass, solar cells. 
For example, if, in that Bucky-inspired phrase, we draw back and we look at planet Earth, and we take a kind of typical, industrialized society, then the energy consumed would be split between the buildings, 44 percent, transport, 34 percent, and industry. 
If you compared Detroit with a city of a Northern European example -- and Munich is not a bad example of that, with the greater dependence on walking and cycling -- then a city which is really only twice as dense, is only using one-tenth of the energy. 
In other words, you take these comparable examples and the energy leap is enormous. 
How does it affect the design of buildings? 
The one example I take is a corporate headquarters for a company called Willis and Faber, in a small market town in the northeast of England, commuting distance with London. 
This building was wired for change. 
In other words, we didn't have the technology to do what would be really interesting on that building. 
And if I fast-forward in time, what is interesting is that the technology is now available and celebratory. 
The library of the Free University, which opened last year, is an example of that. 
So it's not a kind of sacrifice, quite the reverse. 
And just to give a sort of glimpse of that technology, the ability to plot points in the sky and to transmit, to transfer that information now, directly into the factory. 
For wind tunnels, we would literally put them in a wind tunnel and blast air, and the many kilometers of cable and so on. 
I mean, major transformation. 
It's been well known that the Dead Sea is dying. 
How do you make them more friendly at that scale? 
Hong Kong I refer to as a kind of analog experience in a digital age, because you always have a point of reference. 
250 -- excuse me, 50,000 people working 24 hours, seven days. 
Contagious is a good word. 
Laughter is contagious. Passion is contagious. 
And that directly increased student wellbeing. 
And that can't happen in a classroom. 
And Ahmedabad got the first child-friendly zebra crossing in the world. 
Man: This program is wonderful. 
We have to start collecting from 555. 
KBS: So, the charter of compassion starts right here. 
It was incredible. 
Now, I was paid in dollars as a consultant, and I looked at my income tax return and tried to ask myself: Is there a line in my return, which shows how much of this income has gone to the people whose knowledge has made it possible? 
I tried to convince myself that, No, no, I have worked for the policy changes. 
And this was a moment of great pain and trauma because I couldn't live with it any longer. 
In fact, they invite the honey bees through their colors, and the bees don't keep all the honey for themselves. 
These are the three guiding principles of the Honey Bee Network: that whenever we learn something from people it must be shared with them in their language. 
You cannot discriminate. 
I'm so sorry to say that. 
The rice that you ate in the lunch, and you will eat today, is transplanted by women bending in a very awkward posture, millions of them, every season, in the paddy season, when they transplant paddy with their feet in the water. 
And feet in the water will develop fungus, infections, and that infection pains because then other insects bite that point. 
And this is what he got painted. 
There could be nothing more wrong than the Maslowian model of hierarchy of needs because the poorest people in this country can get enlightenment. 
So here's a model where a two-wheeler washing machine ... 
So it is better, it is safer; it is affordable, it is energy-efficient. 
So why are people willing to adjust with that mismatch? 
For example, cell phones: We have 400 million cellphones in this country. 
Now, the eminent model, the long-tail model tells you that small sales of a large number of books, for example, having only a few copies sold can still be a viable model. 
Look at what he is doing. 
But he has modified a two-wheeler so that he can get autonomy and freedom and flexibility. 
And we have a very vibrant network in China, particularly, but also emerging in Brazil and other parts of the world. 
I can't change the condition of the road, but I can make the cycle run faster. 
And this is a donkey cart which they modified. 
This is in China. This girl needed a breathing apparatus. 
There's a whole range of innovations that we have. 
A car, which runs on compressed air with six paisa per kilometer. 
And he didn't mean the comfort of a five-course dinner as opposed to a one-course meal, but he really meant the comfort of the quality of the building for the people. 
So in an indirect way, you can see the sun. 
And what they did is they created an integral building element to improve the quality of the space that surrounds the visitors of the museum. 
They created this shade that you can see here, which actually covers the sun, but opens up to the good light from the sky. 
They allowed themselves a few mistakes along the way. 
This is Richard Kelly who was born 100 years ago, which is the reason I bring him up now, because it's kind of an anniversary year. 
He meant something like this -- where the light gives direction to the space and helps you to get around. 
These three distinct elements, together, make a lighting environment that helps us to feel better. 
How do they share their culture? 
The problem is though that I wanted to explain to you how this really works -- but I can have four of these on my finger, so you would not to be able to really see them. 
So just to explain. 
Why are all these motorways permanently lit? 
Can we maybe be much more selective and create better environments that also benefit from darkness? 
Can we engage people more in the lighting projects that we create, so they really want to connect with it, like here? 
Where have they come from? Where are they going? 
And it only embodies all these stories and all this suspense because of the darkness and the light. 
They pointed out that, I believe it was between 30 and 50 years from today, they will be steering cars by wire, without all that mechanical stuff. 
It really was a big idea in technology when we started applying it in the iBOT for the disabled community. 
The big idea here is, I think, a new piece of a solution to a fairly big problem in transportation. 
For instance, in that time, 91 percent of America lived either on farms or in small towns. 
So, the car -- the horseless carriage that replaced the horse and carriage -- was a big deal; it went twice as fast as a horse and carriage. 
It all made sense, with 91 percent of the people living there. 
Three million people die every year in cities due to bad air, and almost all particulate pollution on this planet is produced by transportation devices, particularly sitting in cities. 
I don't look like a motor vehicle. 
We're a recreational vehicle that doesn't really matter, and I don't spend my time doing that kind of stuff. 
Then she looks up, she's looking up, and she says, And I'm 81 years old, and I don't drive a car anymore. 
We need water. 
We figured out how to put a vapor-compression distiller on this thing, with a counter-flow heat exchanger to take the waste heat, then using a little bit of the electricity control that process, and for 450 watts, which is a little more than half of its waste heat, it will make 10 gallons an hour of distilled water from anything that comes into it to cool it. 
So if we put this box on here in a few years, could we have a solution to transportation, electricity, and communication, and maybe drinkable water in a sustainable package that weighs 60 pounds? 
We tend to do any technology that we think is sufficiently important; we'll typically do it twice. Once, we want to do it first. 
And then it's time to do it again. Last year. 
After it falls below a critical price, it will tend, if it's successful, to rise above a critical mass, a penetration. 
And maybe you have reasons for starting to connect them, and bring the rest of your entertainment in. 
This is a fascinating research from WHO that shows the effect of generic drugs on anti-retroviral drug compounds and cocktails. 
Linux is another good example. 
Two percent isn't 20 percent, but in the car business, which is slow moving, that's huge; that's arrival. 
Free is something that comes with digital, because the reproduction costs are essentially free. It comes with IP, because it's such an efficient protocol. It comes with fiber optics, because there's so much bandwidth. 
It's an economic force; it's a technical force. 
You know, there could be a film's [unclear] there, but it's basically, every song ever made could be stored on 400 dollars worth of storage by 2008. It takes that entire element, the physical element, of songs off the table. 
Because of some of technologies we've been talking about. 
And by definition, every one of you who is in this room must consider yourself a global soul, a global citizen. 
Even more problematic, they're not listening to poor people themselves. 
In 2002 I met this incredible entrepreneur named Amitabha Sadangi from India, who'd been working for 20 years with some of the poorest farmers on the planet. 
And he was expressing his frustration that the aid market had bypassed low-income farmers altogether, despite the fact that 200 million farmers alone in India make under a dollar a day. 
But the market also had bypassed low income farmers, because these systems were both too expensive, and they were constructed for fields that were too large. 
In fact, when you go back to the beginning, there were no private investors who would be willing to take a risk on building a new technology for a market class that made under a dollar a day, that were known to be some of the most risk-averse people on the planet and that were working in one of the riskiest sectors, agriculture. 
Secondarily, we wanted to see if we could export this drip irrigation and bring it into other countries. 
In Arusha, Tanzania, A to Z Textile Manufacturing has worked in partnership with us, with UNICEF, with the Global Fund, to create a factory that now employs 7,000 people, mostly women. 
So that in the terrorist attacks of November they were the first responder, and are now beginning to scale, because of partnership. 
President Obama understands that. 
It's not hyperbole to say that these civil society institutions and these social entrepreneurs are building real alternatives to the Taliban. 
It was about 115 degrees. 
And because I wanted to impress you all with slides, since I saw the great presentations yesterday with graphs, I made a graph that moves, and I talk about the makeup of me. 
During the hurricane, you had MSNBC posting about the hurricane on their blog, updating it frequently. This was possible because of the easy nature of blogging tools. 
They sent a search party, and I overheard people saying they wish I had killed myself, jumped off Bible Peak. 
And I won it. I reached all of these people, and I had tens of thousands of people reading about my life everyday. 
And then I wrote a post about a banjo. 
And my husband -- this is my husband, who is very hot -- he won an award for being hot --  -- he told me, You cannot buy a banjo. 
And those people who know me understood my joke. 
How much money does he spend on beer in a year? 
And then I got people saying, Leave him. 
And why are they reading this? 
This is not science, but this was enough for me to be really so interested in how we have evolved and how we can trace our line. 
This is the only picture I have. And to think of what we have the ability to do with our blogs; to think about the people who are on those $100 computers talking about who they are, sharing these personal stories -- this is an amazing thing. 
And -- and so I printed out her -- or I sent a PDF of her blog to her family, and they passed it out at her memorial service, and even in her obituary, they mentioned her blog because it was such a big part of her life. 
You can see in its shape and its streamlined design it's powered for ocean swimming. 
It flies through the ocean on its pectoral fins, gets lift, powers its movements with a lunate tail. 
This tuna symbolizes what's the problem for all of us in the room. 
So take a look at that animal. 
So in a program called Tag-A-Giant we've actually gone from Ireland to Canada, from Corsica to Spain. 
And that's the fisheries off the state of North Carolina. 
They're coming together. That could be tuna sex -- and there it is. 
So from data like this, we're able now to put the map up, and in this map you see thousands of positions generated by this decade and a half of tagging. 
Salmon sharks go down to the tropics to pup and come into Monterey. 
We just need to put it together. 
We have the technology that's shown us where it is. 
Hi there. I'm Hasan. I'm an artist. 
Basically this is the FBI offices in Tampa where I spent six months of my life -- back and forth, not six months continuously. 
Or questions such as -- actually, during the polygraph, which was how it finally ended after nine consecutive of them -- one of the polygraph questions was ... 
And it's like, Guys, I travel a lot. 
Don't want to make it look like I'm making any sudden moves. 
And so I just kept doing this over and over and over. 
Then I'd make websites. 
So you can see, Delta 1252 going from Kansas City to Atlanta. 
This was on Delta 719 going from JFK to San Francisco. 
These are the airports that I hang out in, because I like airports. 
But if you can cross-reference this with the other data, then you're basically replaying the roll of the FBI agent and putting it all together. 
This is exactly where my old apartment in San Francisco was. 
And then sometimes you get this. 
So there's multiple databases. 
So there's different categorizations of meals eaten outside empty train stations, empty gas stations. 
At 1:56 p.m. was this one. At 4:59 p.m. was this one. 
Every few moments I shoot the image. 
So by me putting all this information out there, what I'm basically telling you is I'm telling you everything. 
And the reason their information has any value is, well, because no one else has access to it. 
And by me cutting out the middle man and giving it straight to you, the information that the FBI has has no value, so thus devaluing their currency. 
So in a way, I'm glad that I'm completely obsolete. 
And you know, some of my friends have always said, Hey, you're just paranoid. Why are you doing this? 
So you can see that the Homeland Security likes to come by -- Department of Homeland Security. 
Bruno Giussani: Hasan, just curious. 
So it's just become another day. 
And everything's automated at the other end. 
On the day you are in a place where there is no coverage, the FBI gets crazy? 
Well it goes to the last point that I was at. 
Hasan, thank you very much.  
You all know the truth of what I'm going to say. 
But first, see what a miserable lot we are. 
Even the people just below the top have less good health than the people at the top. 
And there, you see it in relation to the measure of inequality I've just shown you, which I shall use over and over again in the data. 
That's very important in poorer countries, but not in the rich developed world. 
But in the more equal societies, it rises to 60 or 65 percent. 
This is violence. 
There's a about a tenfold difference there, log scale up the side. 
But it goes from about 40 to 400 people in prison. 
Basically, it's asking: do rich fathers have rich sons and poor fathers have poor sons, or is there no relationship between the two? 
One is that, in graph after graph, we find the countries that do worse, whatever the outcome, seem to be the more unequal ones, and the ones that do well seem to be the Nordic countries and Japan. 
It's not just one or two things that go wrong, it's most things. 
I am not talking about perfect equality, I'm talking about what exists in rich developed market democracies. 
It also leads to status insecurity. 
The big change in our understanding of drivers of chronic health in the rich developed world is how important chronic stress from social sources is affecting the immune system, the cardiovascular system. 
Thank you. 
Well, I didn't have that in mind, so ... 
The acid will ruin the gold plating. 
Beneath it is a wonderful knife. 
No. But is it fun? 
So I type design emotion and my website wasn't first again. 
It's so much fun to drive. 
And then, a psychologist, Alice Isen, did this wonderful experiment. 
So, she'd bring people into the room, and there'd be a string hanging down here and a string hanging down here. 
You get a little problem, you say, Ah, I'll figure it out. 
There's an amazing amount of stuff that's built into the brain. 
Behavioral is subconscious, you're unaware of it. 
Almost everything we do is subconscious. 
And the tea is sitting in this stuff to the right -- the tea is to the right of this line. 
And the reason you might buy it now is because you care about the environment. 
The other neat thing ... 
So that's the new me. 
The graph was interesting, although you need to consider it carefully. 
It did not correlate with the size of classrooms. 
If you took the same technology and piloted it into one of those remote schools, where the score was 30 percent, and, let's say, took that up to 40 percent -- that will be a completely different thing. 
The last question is what everybody said, but you know, I mean, they must have poked their head over the wall and asked the people in your office, can you show me how to do it, and then somebody taught him. 
He came there and he started to fiddle around with the touchpad. 
I left the computer there with lots of CDs -- I didn't have any Internet -- and came back three months later. 
And as soon as they saw me they said, We need a faster processor and a better mouse. 
So I said, But how did you understand what's going on over there? 
So then I measured, and they were using 200 English words with each other -- mispronounced, but correct usage -- words like exit, stop, find, save, that kind of thing, not only to do with the computer but in their day-to-day conversations. 
This is the Himalayas. Up in the north, very cold. 
I want to just cut this short. We did this over and over again. 
So if they have access to the computer, they will teach themselves, including intelligence. 
But we got a clean learning curve, almost exactly the same as what you would get in a school. 
I'll leave it at that, because, I mean, it sort of says it all, doesn't it? 
An educational technology and pedagogy that is digital, automatic, fault-tolerant, minimally invasive, connected and self-organized. 
And it's about rediscovering idealism in all of that wreckage. 
I negotiated with Saddam's diplomats at the U.N. 
I'd already served in Germany, Norway, various other places, but I was posted to New York to serve on the U.N. Security Council for the British delegation. 
And there, I dealt with things like the Middle East peace process, the Lockerbie issue -- we can talk about that later, if you wish -- but above all, my responsibility was Iraq and its weapons of mass destruction and the sanctions we placed on Iraq to oblige it to disarm itself of these weapons. 
I decided to take a sabbatical, in fact, at the New School, Bruce. 
So took a running leap and jumped over the edge of a cliff. 
But, in a way, I've got used to the sensation of it. 
A lot of my friends were still in it. 
It was anarchy. 
And it's a very horrible thing to see anarchy, to know that the police and the military -- there were lots of military troops there -- actually can't stop that rampaging mob who's coming down the street. 
They were not allowed a foreign office to help them deal with this immensely complicated process, which became known as the Final Status Process of Kosovo. 
And I came to Kosovo and advised the Kosovo government. 
If they can't do it, who's left to deal with it? 
So we will be bringing Darfuri rebel groups, the Northern Cypriots and the Southern Cypriots, rebels from Aceh, and awful long laundry list of chaotic conflicts around the world. 
That is the politics of the 21st century, and in a way, Independent Diplomat embodies that fragmentation, that change, that is happening to all of us. 
Now today, we're not talking about good and bad TV. 
This is something that clearly separates us from the animal kingdom. 
Is television literally functioning as our conscience, tempting us and rewarding us at the same time? 
We surveyed the top-20 Nielsen shows every year for 50 years -- a thousand shows. 
Viewers had responded dramatically. 
This was the first show that allowed viewers to say, My God, I can comment on how I feel about the Vietnam War, about the presidency, through television? 
It can change us? 
That's mapped against the red dot, unemployment, which is a simple Bureau of Labor Department statistic. 
We had the bursting of the tech bubble. 
I can vote you off the island. 
There has not been a decade of television without a definitive, dominant TV mom. 
Maude Findlay, the epitome of the irreverent 1970s, who tackled abortion, divorce, even menopause on TV. 
Murphy Brown took on a vice president when she took on the idea of single parenthood. 
This era's mom, Bree Van de Kamp. 
So here's the metaphor I'm offering today. 
Previous to this time, I was very selfish and self-righteous. 
And on this higher level he becomes loving and forgiving. 
But here's the weirdest place of all: war. 
I passes insensibly into a we, my becomes our and individual faith loses its central importance. 
Now profane is the opposite of sacred. 
It just means ordinary or common. 
Durkheim believed that anything that unites us takes on an air of sacredness. 
I'm offering the metaphor of a staircase in the mind. 
So here's the million-dollar question for social scientists like me: Is the staircase a feature of our evolutionary design? 
Or is it a bug, a mistake in the system -- this religious stuff is just something that happens when the wires cross in the brain -- Jill has a stroke and she has this religious experience, it's just a mistake? 
There's a mutation in the gene and one of them mutates to follow a selfish strategy. 
It's so big and powerful and efficient that it can take resources from the greens, from the defectors, the cheaters. 
And pretty soon the whole population is actually composed of these new superorganisms. 
We're not locked into cooperation the way bees and ants are. 
We're bees. We busted out of the hive during the Enlightenment. 
We unleashed Earth-changing creativity and generated vast wealth and comfort. 
What's missing? 
And that gives me hope because people are not purely selfish. 
Every man is a piece of the continent, a part of the main. 
Thank you. 
There was no more space in the house. So I went out to the backyard, and without any previous building experience, and about 3,000 dollars and some recycled materials, I built this space. 
There was enough space. And I had control, which was very important. 
He won the silver medal for Ireland in the 1992 Olympics, and he trains in this space. He trains other people. 
Museum quality. 
I had requested slides, kind of adamantly, up till the -- pretty much, last few days, but was denied access to a slide projector. 
These are a couple of garage doors painted identical, situated next to each other. 
So, here's the first door. You know, you get the message. 
This is for a book by Metropolis. 
When I first contacted William Burroughs about being part of it, he said no; he said he didn't believe it was the end of print. 
And also, surprisingly, it was done in kind of a cheap metal, and it had completely rusted through, and water everywhere, and spiders. 
And I thought, you know, what were they thinking? 
Got no way of tracking it, so I could be totally wrong. 
I don't have the site. It's just the piece itself. 
I found out that's very true, working on this campaign worldwide. 
But anyway, this is one of the ads I was most pleased with, because they were all elaborately art-directed, and this one I thought actually felt like the girl was looking at the computer. 
In Germany, they made one small change without checking with me -- nor did they have to, because it was done through agencies -- but see if you can tell the difference. 
So, I understand their logic. I totally disagree with it; I think it's a very small-minded approach, the world is certainly much more global, and I certainly think the people of Germany could have handled a little black girl sitting in front of a computer, though we'll never know. 
Article on Bryan Ferry -- just really boring article -- so I set the whole article in Dingbat. 
It's kind of horsey type, but the texture -- the second plane not quite hitting: there was something more enticing, if that's the right -- it's not the right word -- but in this cover than Time or Newsweek. 
It did not let up. 
There were a lot of orphans made this day, and here's a dead body being brought out. 
This is my desktop. 
This is -- I like found art; hand lettering's coming back in a big way, and I thought this was a great example of both. 
But I was asked to give a talk at a conference in Sacramento a few years back. 
And I remembered seeing this photograph of my father, who was a test pilot, and he told me that when you signed up to become a test pilot, they told you that there was a 40 to 50 percent chance of death on the job. 
I've spent the past year thinking about what it really should be about. 
Before that, obviously, technology didn't exist. But obviously it did. 
But it's still very, very productive. So I'm attempting to say, if we take technology's view of the world, what does it want? 
And I think once we ask that question we have to go back, actually, to life. Because obviously, if we keep extending the origins of technology far back, I think we come back to life at some point. 
Brian Farrell's work is all part of this agenda to try and actually discover all the species on Earth. 
More and more of the inert matter of the globe is being touched and animated by life. 
And the last thing, I bring back this nudibranch. 
And so the general, long-term trends of evolution are roughly these five: ubiquity, diversity, specialization, complexity and socialization. Now, I took that and said, OK, what are the long-term trends in technology? 
That we see there's a general hammer, and hammers become more and more specific over time. 
There's obviously diversity. Huge numbers of things. 
So the major trends in technology evolution actually are the same as in biological evolution. The same drives that we see towards ubiquity, towards diversity, towards socialization, towards complexity. That is maybe not a big surprise because if we map out, say, the evolution of armor, you can actually follow a sort of an evolutionary-type cladistic tree. 
He has one of the world's largest collections -- about 500 of them. 
But the most interesting aspect about this is that if you look at those red lines at the bottom, those indicate basically a parentage of a type of cornet that was no longer made. That does not happen in biology. 
And when we take that, we take this idea of what culture is doing and add it to what the long-term trajectory -- again, in life's evolution -- we find that each case -- each of the major transitions in life -- what they're really about is accelerating and changing the way in which evolution happens. 
So all these steps in evolution are increasing, basically, the evolution of evolvability. 
So if you have life hacking -- life means hacking, the game of survival -- then evolution is a way to extend the game by changing the rules of the game. 
And each time we make a new opportunity place, we're allowing a platform to make new ones. 
That's what technology wants. 
I'm going, My gosh! I had never seen anything like this in my life! 
And you walk up to the front of the tank. Then you realize that these animals all have different personalities: Some of them would hold their ground, others would slink into the back of the tank and disappear in the rocks, and one in particular, this amazing animal ... 
And what I learned in school though was really beneficial. 
If you're a wildlife filmmaker and you're going out into the field to film animals, especially behavior, it helps to have a fundamental background on who these animals are, how they work and, you know, a bit about their behaviors. 
So we created a way to find out,  and I got my first look at that famous beak in action. 
And octopus are, they live in all the oceans. 
And as you go deeper, that lovely, blue water you were launched in gives way to darker and darker blue. 
And finally, it's a rich lavender, and after a couple of thousand feet, it's ink black. 
But we're just going to zip right past this area, this area that includes about 95 percent of the living space on our planet and go to the mid-ocean ridge, which I think is even more extraordinary. 
And the top of this mountain range is splitting apart, creating a rift valley. 
The surrounding water is just a couple of degrees above freezing. 
And this kind of life and death of hydrothermal vent communities is going on every 30 or 40 years all along the ridge. 
But, encouragingly, I've seen just the opposite. 
Well, how it happened is the local community galvanized. 
And these problems are so large and global, and it's just overwhelming. 
My answer to that is don't look at the big, overwhelming issues of the world. 
And we can make changes to our behavior that will influence and affect the environment, like those people changed the health of that bay. 
I was afraid of womanhood. 
Not that I'm not afraid now, but I've learned to pretend. 
I've learned to be flexible. 
Back in the '50s and '60s, when I was growing up, little girls were supposed to be kind and thoughtful and pretty and gentle and soft, and we were supposed to fit into roles that were sort of shadowy -- really not quite clear what we were supposed to be. 
Now my mother was different. 
And I just ate it up. 
Because women are on the ground floor, and we know the traditions so well, we can bring a different voice to the table. 
And then also my family was in chaos, and I drew to try to bring my family together --  -- try to bring my family together with laughter. 
But I feel blessed to be able to work with them. 
Two hundred years ago, the United States was less than a few percent urbanized. 
It's now more than 82 percent. 
Now listen to this: Every week for the foreseeable future, until 2050, every week more than a million people are being added to our cities. 
However, cities, despite having this negative aspect to them, are also the solution. 
So we have this kind of dual nature. 
That's the quest. 
So here's two questions that I have in my head when I think about this problem. 
We use them metaphorically -- the DNA of a company, the metabolism of a city, and so on -- is that just bullshit, metaphorical bullshit, or is there serious substance to it? 
And if that is the case, how come that it's very hard to kill a city? 
You could drop an atom bomb on a city, and 30 years later it's surviving. 
This is just a tiny range actually: It's us mammals; we're one of these. 
Rat, that's a rat -- could have been you. 
We're all pretty much the same. 
And you see, you're very familiar with this. 
Despite the fact that this is the most complex and diverse system in the universe, there's an extraordinary simplicity being expressed by this. 
So a wonderful thing about all of biology is that it expresses an extraordinary economy of scale. 
And you're very familiar with these networks. 
And here's the summary of what I'm saying. 
Heart rates are slower; you live longer; diffusion of oxygen and resources across membranes is slower, etc. 
Here it is, which says that the bigger you are the more you have per capita, unlike biology -- higher wages, more super-creative people per capita as you get bigger, more patents per capita, more crime per capita. 
See companies, they scale. 
There it is: after some little fluctuations at the beginning, when companies are innovating, they scale beautifully. 
But you notice, I've cheated, because I've only gone up to '94. 
And I put in front of them an authentic experience that allowed them to learn for themselves. 
The problem then becomes how do you take seventh- and eighth-graders to a talk about genocide and deal with the subject in a way that is responsible and respectful, and they know what to do with it. 
I moved there primarily to be part of a learning environment that validated the way that I knew that kids learned, and that really wanted to investigate what was possible when you are willing to let go of some of the paradigms of the past, of information scarcity when my grandmother was in school and when my father was in school and even when I was in school, and to a moment when we have information surplus. 
It asked them to create for themselves, and it allowed them to fail, process, learn from. 
Ask them to go to places, to see things for themselves, to actually experience the learning, to play, to inquire. 
This is one of my favorite photos, because this was taken on Tuesday, when I asked the students to go to the polls. 
There are words that we're truly afraid of. 
This was an issue from 2002 that they published with a lot of different articles on the bionic human. 
Regenerative medicine is what Business Week put up when they did a story about regenerative medicine not too long ago. 
And you can basically see that the richer a country is, the older the people are within it. 
And why is this a particularly dramatic challenge right now? 
In 2010, two workers per retiree in the U.S. 
This is age versus cost of health care. 
This video, I think, gets across the concept that I'm talking about quite dramatically. 
The way to do that is to develop a conversation with the body. 
In a child, before the age of about six months, if they lose their fingertip in an accident, they'll re-grow their fingertip. 
We heard yesterday about the importance of new materials. 
I wouldn't be telling you this story if it weren't compelling. 
This is a horse. The horse is not in pain. 
After treatment that's what it looks like. 
He chills the dish, it changes its properties and he peels it right out of the dish. 
It's the coolest stuff. 
In this case, at the end of the bypass operation, you're going to see the stem cells from the patient that were removed at the beginning of the procedure being injected directly into the heart of the patient. 
This was a randomized trial. 
There go the cells. 
Here's another example of stem-cell therapy that isn't quite clinical yet, but I think very soon will be. 
So you could go in, you could get your tummy-tuck. 
Japan is the oldest country on earth in terms of its average age. 
In the United States we've had a somewhat different approach. 
But there's been no strategic investment to bring all of the necessary things to bear and focus them in a careful way. 
And these TEDsters are -- you know, as innocent as that name sounds -- these are the philanthropists and artists and scientists who sort of shape our world. 
And what could I possibly have to say that would be distinguished enough to justify my participation in something like that? 
Well my characters, like the ones in my shows, allow me to play with the spaces between those questions. 
What I should tell you -- what I should tell you is that they've each prepared their own little TED talks. 
Well you know, she calls herself black -- she's really more like a caramel color if you look at her. 
Frankly, I'm kvelling just to be here with all the luminaries you have attending something like this, you know. 
So many others you see, they're just wonderful. 
But anyway, I should have started by saying just how lucky I feel. 
You know, I couldn't have dreamed of such a thing as a young girl. 
You know, your parents must be very proud. 
The point is, I'm happy somebody has practical ideas to get us out of this mess. 
So, happy continued success. 
Sorry, this is such a wonderful opportunity and everything, to be here right now. 
My name is Noraida. And I'm just -- I'm so thrilled to be part of like your TED conference that you're doing and everything like that. 
Actually, you could say I grew up in the capital of Dominican Republic, otherwise known as Washington Heights in New York City. 
And I think he's Mexican, so that's -- honestly, that's close enough for me right now. So --  I just -- I'm sorry. 
Okay. Sorry. So anyway, what I was trying to say is that I really love TED. 
Like, it's -- I can't get over this right now. 
So, basically like DA BOMB -- what Dominican-American Benevolent Organization for Mothers and Babies does is, basically, we try to advocate for students who show a lot of academic promise and who also happen to be mothers like me. 
I come from a multicultural family. 
And we were only 11 years old, so it was not appropriate.  
Although, you know, it was wonderful. 
Well, I just wanted to quickly say good evening. 
But when Sarah Jones asked me to please come to TED, I said, well, you know, first, I don't know that, you know -- before two years ago, you would not find me in front of an audience of people, much less like this because I did not like to give speeches because I feel that, as an immigrant, I do not have good English skills for speaking. 
But that's where we had some problems. 
The daughter's marriage is very special to the mom. 
And I said, Yes, men can be difficult, but all women have to get used to that. 
So, I always teach my kids to respect American ideas, but I told my daughter that this is one exception --  -- that she is not gay, she is just confused by this American problem. 
Thank you very, very much. I love you. 
Finished university education, got a medical degree, 1986. 
But, critical poverty: this slide is from a presentation I gave not that long ago. Gapminder.org tells the story of the gap between Africa and the rest of the world in terms of health care. 
Yes, I'm sorry if it upsets some of you, but I think you need to see this. That's the floor, OK? 
Because it's scary and it's expensive, but we need to have it, OK? 
That's Mike, Mike comes out from Mississippi. 
See, that's one of the problems we have in Nigeria and in Africa generally. 
It looks like all these Americans are here and yes, one Brit, and he's not going to do anything -- he thinks he's British actually, and he's actually Nigerian, I just thought about that. 
We eventually got it working, is the truth, but it was one of these. Even older than the one you saw. 
No? Yes? Doesn't matter, it worked. 
And currently we're working on oxygen -- oxygen delivery on-site. 
So that's not new. What we're doing is applying this technology to it. 
These are members of my graduating class, 1986. 
And finally, I get a call last year, and then I have to go up after J.J. Abrams. 
Hollywood gathers around power tables, and the Valley gathers around power tables. 
But I'm actually here today to tell a story. 
And what he said was, he wasn't so much afraid that he might die, but that he hadn't done the things that he wanted to with his life. 
But for me, personally, it was a real change. 
I went from living in a house with five guys in Palo Alto and living off their leftovers, to all of a sudden having all kinds of resources. 
Connecting them together through conferences -- like a TED -- brings so many powerful connections, or through the World Forum on Social Entrepreneurship that my foundation does at Oxford every year. 
So, in 2003, I started to make my way around Los Angeles to talk about the idea of a pro-social media company and I was met with a lot of encouragement. 
One of the lines of encouragement that I heard over and over was, The streets of Hollywood are littered with the carcasses of people like you, who think you're going to come to this town and make movies. 
One of these films in particular, called North Country, was actually kind of a box office disaster. 
And that to me, spoke volumes, because it's -- the film started about a true-life story about a woman who was harassed, sued her employer, led to a landmark case that led to the Equal Opportunity Act, and the Violence Against Women Act and others. 
At that point, I thought I knew something about global warming. 
And we have 10 films in production right now, and dozens others in development. 
And one thing that I've learned is that there's never one right way to make change. 
And I can imagine, if we do this, the headlines in 10 years might read something like these: New AIDS Cases in Africa Fall to Zero, U.S. Imports its Last Barrel of Oil --  -- Israelis and Palestinians Celebrate 10 Years of Peaceful Coexistence. 
And I believe that, working together, we can make all of these things happen. 
The next day, all the artists were invited to join Mandela in Robben Island, where he was going to give a conference to the world's press, standing in front of his former prison cell. 
He was wearing a t-shirt like the one I wear now. 
I've subsequently become an envoy for Scotland and HIV. 
I tell her story to everyone because she represents one of millions of HIV/AIDS orphans. 
I think that's fair to say, it's almost everyone in the hall. 
But now we have this new layer of private sovereignty in cyberspace. 
And their decisions about software coding, engineering, design, terms of service all act as a kind of law that shapes what we can and cannot do with our digital lives. 
The reality is that even in democratic societies today, we do not have good answers for how you balance the need for security and law enforcement on one hand and protection of civil liberties and free speech on the other in our digital networks. 
This is a map of social networks worldwide, and certainly Facebook has conquered much of the world -- which is either a good or a bad thing, depending on how you like the way Facebook manages its service. 
In plain English, that means censorship and surveillance of their users. 
This has a chilling effect on people's ability to use the Internet to hold government accountable. 
Thank you very much. 
Comparable, in its own very peculiar way, to the achievements of Microsoft or Google. 
Here are some of those same weightlifters after their 1989 makeover. 
And so I resolved to travel around the world examining this global criminal underworld by talking to policemen, by talking to victims, by talking to consumers of illicit goods and services. 
Now, organized crime in a globalizing world operates in the same way as any other business. 
And it is this Western desire to consume that is the primary driver of international organized crime. 
And as a consequence of this trade, Britain alone lost eight billion dollars in revenue. 
So what were these guys doing with all the money they were making? 
Well, this is where we come to globalization, because that was not just the deregulation of global trade. 
This one, however, is in central British Columbia where I photographed it. 
What they've done is they've shifted their operations. 
People don't smoke as much dope, or visit prostitutes quite so frequently during a recession. 
And so as soon as I saw this drop into my inbox, I dispatched it hastily to the recycle bin and spared myself a very nasty infection. 
It's such a large conference. 
Mark Serfaas. It's pretty cool, huh? Pursuing happiness. 
I mean -- no, I mean like in the TED sense? 
1,860 -- am I good? 
and my name, and it would tell me. And I have to tell you, right now, this is an unadulterated piece of software, this is a real Internet browser and this is an actual Google site, and we're going to test it out live today. 
Am I feeling lucky? 
Ze Frank: Oh. Amazing. 
Needless to say, I was able to leave my job. 
Four years later, I still get probably two or three hundred emails a day from people I don't know, and it's been an amazing opportunity to kind of get to know different cultures, you know? 
And that was embarrassing. 
So, the Scribbler is an attempt to create a generative tool. 
I mean this is incredible. This is an 11-year-old girl -- drew this and submitted it. It's just gorgeous. 
None of the haikus were written by the same person, and in fact, no line was -- you know, each line is contributed by a different person at a different -- at a different time. 
It dances to music. Lotte Reiniger, an amazing shadow puppeteer in the '20s, that started doing more elaborate things. 
Chris Anderson: Ladies and gentlemen, Mr. Ze Frank. 
Well, this is 2009. 
So I'm going to talk about it. 
We get the geneticists keeping on telling us how extremely closely we are related -- hardly any genes of difference, very, very closely related. 
I'm not talking about airy-fairy stuff about culture or psychology, or behavior. 
Professor Tobias came over from South Africa and spoke to University College London. 
You've believed it through generations. 
So that is what they have done now. 
Aaron Filler from Harvard said, Isn't it time we stopped talking about selective pressures? 
He kept it to himself for 30 years. 
And at that time, it became set in stone: the aquatic theory should be dumped with the UFOs and the yetis, as part of the lunatic fringe of science. 
I suggested it and people said, No no no. 
Peals of merry laughter! 
That crazy woman. She's off again. She'll say anything won't she? 
This has come 'round to be that all those naked pachyderms have aquatic ancestors. 
So this is a close connection between nakedness and water. 
Here you can't find anybody to compare it with, because we're the only animal that walks upright on two legs. 
There is only one circumstance in which they always, all of them, walk on two legs, and that is when they are wading through water. 
David Attenborough thinks it's significant, as the possible beginning of our bipedalism. 
In the whale it's complete: no fat inside at all, all in blubber outside. 
We can speak. 
Try to imagine a gorilla performing the same maneuver, and you can see that, compared with gorilla, we are halfway to being shaped like a fish. 
There is nothing there. 
I don't believe it. 
There was Professor Tobias. He's come over. 
Daniel Dennett, he's come over. 
So the third thing that might happen is a very beautiful thing. 
I can tell you that in three words. 
The textbooks don't mention it. 
And it's pretty simple. 
Everybody's got one -- all of you. 
And so when working as an interaction designer, or as an artist who deals with participation -- creating things that live on, in or around the human form -- it's really a powerful space to work within. 
And it is a tool that actually enables one to listen to their own innards. 
When I meet a glacier for the very first time, what do I do? 
Do I carve a message in the snow? 
But really the most satisfying experience I've had is the act of listening, which is what we need in any good relationship. 
And just as with the wall, how I wanted to be more wall-like, with this project, I'd actually like to take more a of glacial pace. 
So, how do you do that? 
That doesn't move. 
Here's my promise to you: If you are consistent and do this, within three months the elected official will start calling you when that issue comes up and say, What do you think? 
Now, when you approach these animals, you need to understand there's a dangerous end to them, and you also need to approach them with some level of respect and a little bit of wariness. 
If you had the right information, you would have done the right thing.  
If they follow protocol, they'll pick up the phone and say, Hey, do you have the original? 
And you actually get into the folder that the elected official actually has to read. 
So, what your letter means: I've got to tell you, we are all in a party, and political officials are the pinatas. 
Living systems are in constant conversation with the natural world, through sets of chemical reactions called metabolism. 
And this is the conversion of one group of substances into another, either through the production or the absorption of energy. 
Now, that's exactly the kind of process that I'm interested in, when we're thinking about sustainable materials. 
It is able to move around its environment. 
It can follow chemical gradients. 
It can undergo complex reactions, some of which are happily architectural. 
Here, this is a protocell, and it's vigorously shedding this skin. 
The protocells can actually move away from the light. 
So, this is really interesting. Now we have an architecture that connects a city to the natural world in a very direct and immediate way. 
This is a river. 
The reasons vary state to state, but mostly in the details. 
But as more people showed up wanting water, the folks who were there first got a little concerned, and in 1865, Montana passed its first water law. 
There's another thing happening around the country, which is that companies are starting to get concerned about their water footprint. 
So what can they do about this remaining water footprint that can have serious effects on the ecosystem? 
He doesn't lose the water right, he just chooses to apply that right, or some portion of it, to the stream, instead of to the land. 
This guy's measuring the water that this leaves in the stream. 
He's by far the happiest man ever measured by science. 
Compassion is fun. 
Therefore, to create the conditions for global compassion, all we have to do is to reframe compassion as something that is fun. 
These are leaders who are highly ambitious for the greater good. 
And they, according to the research, make the best business leaders. 
And if you look at these qualities in the context of compassion, we find that the cognitive and affective components of compassion -- understanding people and empathizing with people -- inhibits, tones down, what I call the excessive self-obsession that's in us, therefore creating the conditions for humility. 
This awareness of serving the greater good is very self-inspiring and it creates fertile ground for compassion to grow in. 
That's one. 
The second ingredient is autonomy. 
And this also creates the conditions for compassion in the workplace. 
I found this to be true, both on the individual level and at a corporate level. 
And what I recognized was that there was an incredible window of opportunity for us as a world community to come together and end torture as an investigative tool. 
We often think of torture as being political torture or reserved for just the worst, but, in fact, 95 percent of torture today is not for political prisoners. 
So it's just a place where there was no rule of law. 
In Burundi I walked into a prison and it wasn't a 12-year-old boy, it was an 8-year-old boy for stealing a mobile phone. 
And when I walked up to the prison director, I said, You've got to let her out. 
So the pieces are, not only the training of the lawyers, but us finding a way to systematically implement early access to counsel, because they are the safeguard in the system for people who are being tortured. 
But the third and most important thing is that we make a commitment to this. 
And the reason that I think that those words are interesting is because those were the same kinds of words that were used for people who decided they would end slavery, or end apartheid. 
So, you know, there's bars. And by the time that Vishna was getting bigger, which means what gets bigger? Your head gets bigger. 
So he would come to the first bar, the second bar and then the third bar, and then really slowly move his head so he could fit through, and come back, third, second, first. And he would grab my pinkie, because what he wanted to do every day is he wanted to go visit. 
And I will do the one thing that I can do. 
Thank you. 
We were in Queens, we were building the big, big, big, big building in Midtown, so we were in the small, small, small boondocks. 
But it's not only that. 
In Italy, in Milan especially, contemporary art really doesn't have that much of a place. 
They tried to make a toddler's gas mask in such a way that the toddler can be held by the parent because proximity of the body is so important. 
Instead, she said, No, no. Work and leisure can be together. 
Yeah, that's particularly gorgeous -- it's the TV dinner of 2001. 
I would like, instead, to talk about how great some designers are. 
It's a long story because it started before 2001 and it was called Emergency. 
So, designers sometimes don't do things that are immediately functional, but they're functional to our understanding of issues. 
This is Cindy van den Bremen, who is a Dutch designer that's done this series of Capsters. 
They range from this fluffy toy that is about hugging you -- because autistic children like to be hugged tight, so it has a spring inside -- all the way to this doll with a mirror so the child can see him or herself in the mirror and regain a sense of self. 
Design really looks upon the whole world and it considers the world in all of its different ranges. 
And it was really interesting because I was the last speaker and before me there were people that were really talking about luxury, and I didn't want to be a party pooper but at the same time I felt that I had to kind of bring back the discourse to reality. 
The rhythm of the sinusoids has changed tremendously, just like the rhythm of our life in the past 25 years, so I'm not sure anymore what the wavelength is. 
But design and science and the possibility of visualizing different scales, and therefore, really work at the scale of the very small to make it very big and very meaningful. 
So, Africa is a complex continent full of contradictions, as you can see. 
And I want to tell you that this is my story, OK? 
And it's the story of many of the Africans who are here. 
And my father said, OK, listen. 
So we went to the school, and because we were nobodies, and because we didn't have privilege, and because my father didn't have the right last name, he was treated like dirt. 
But the money ran out. 
You don't see the blogger, you don't see the Harvard-educated lawyer, the vibrant person, you know? 
And you didn't know about the windmill, you know? 
And I was just moved. 
So, what is to be done? 
And this is an example, you know, blogging is one way of doing that. 
So we need to start getting better. 
And going back to the point I was trying to make, this is the Swahili Wikipedia. 
Swahili is spoken by about 50 million people in East Africa. 
So, that's a start, and we've heard of all their other initiatives. 
I walked away from a job with one of the top firms in D.C., Covington and Burling, six figures. 
What are they doing? 
Practically. I mean, when I was a first-year student in law school, my mom's business had collapsed, so I was supporting her. 
My sister was struggling to get through undergrad. 
An example. This man changed my life. 
I said, I want to be a lawyer. 
And I'm like, Because I'm here and it's cheap, and you know, I kind of like Pittsburgh. 
I was also building something called the Copenhagen Wheel, which is just a really beautiful, beautiful electric bike at a lab at MIT called SENSEable City Lab. 
This is a place where my friend, Abhishek Sen was interning. 
And that's his actual photograph. 
She told me that this is how you would typically test for anemia. 
But this is not available in Parol. 
But fundamentally, what I believe is that the map behind of me is called basically the map of anemia. 
And when I walked in, she was already at the table. 
And she said, I saw your Talk live-streamed. 
So of course, the only thing I could think of to say at that point was, Yeah, me neither. 
Why did you bring this up? Have you lost your mind? 
And I said, I'm just thinking about it a little bit. 
And my life did end when that happened. 
The first is vulnerability is not weakness. 
The majority of people. 
I define vulnerability as emotional risk, exposure, uncertainty. 
I am not a natural vulnerability researcher. 
So when I became Vulnerability TED, like an action figure -- like Ninja Barbie, but I'm Vulnerability TED -- I thought, I'm going to leave that shame stuff behind, because I spent six years studying shame before I really started writing and talking about vulnerability. 
But in surviving this last year, I was reminded of a cardinal rule -- not a research rule, but a moral imperative from my upbringing -- you've got to dance with the one who brung ya. 
It is to put on some galoshes and walk through and find our way around. 
Here's why. 
I can't wait to tell people this. 
The credit goes to the man in the arena whose face is marred with dust and blood and sweat. 
That's what life is about, about daring greatly, about being in the arena. 
I know your dad never paid attention, even when you made CFO. 
Shame drives two big tapes -- never good enough and, if you can talk it out of that one, who do you think you are? 
It's uncomfortable, but it's adaptive. 
I did not interview men for the first four years of my study. 
And he said, That's convenient. 
So I started interviewing men and asking questions. 
If you put shame in a Petri dish, it needs three things to grow exponentially: secrecy, silence and judgment. 
If you put the same amount of shame in a Petri dish and douse it with empathy, it can't survive. 
And I know it's seductive to stand outside the arena, because I think I did it my whole life, and think to myself, I'm going to go in there and kick some ass when I'm bulletproof and when I'm perfect. 
We want you to go in. 
So what would be better [than] to use the Herring Gull, in its freedom, circling and swooping over the sea, and [to] use this as a role model? 
So maybe we'll try it once -- to fly a SmartBird. 
We have to turn it, go up and go down. 
Bruno Giussani: Markus, I think that we should fly it once more. 
I think first it's important for us to recognize what it is to be blind. 
Today, we're reaching not even 10 percent of them. 
He had to mortgage all his life savings to make a bank loan. 
It is ourselves we are healing. 
This helped us build a very ethical and very highly patient-centric organization and systems that support it. 
So what is in this video is a surgeon operating, and then you see on the other side, another patient is getting ready. 
And, of course, one needs the mindset to be wanting to give away what you have as a surplus. 
And what we did was a couple of very counter-intuitive things. 
And then, over time, we were able to bring down the cost significantly to about two percent of what it used to be when we started out. 
So we're really comparing apples to apples. 
So I want to end my talk leaving this thought and challenge to you. 
Dr. V: When you grow in spiritual consciousness, we identify with all that is in the world so there is no exploitation. 
So the question is: how do we get the stuff over from the digital into the physical? 
Let me show you the weight-shifting mobile. 
Now, mass is the first thing; the second thing, that's shape. 
Again, it's a mobile phone-shaped box, and this one can change its shape. 
As humans, we are social, we are empathic, and that's great. 
So, that's very intuitive, and that's what we want. 
The Brown administration, and a bunch of my friends, basically leveled the energy efficiency of California, so it's the same now, 30 years later, even though our economy has gone up 80 percent, per capita. 
The dominant demographic event of our time is this screamingly rapid urbanization that we have going on. 
It's interesting, because history is driven to a large degree by the size of cities. 
People are following opportunity into town. 
It is not the case that slums undermine prosperity, not the working slums; they help create prosperity. 
These people are valuable as a group. 
You look at that lane on the right. 
They're doing it through an outlaw thing, the informal economy. 
And young people in brand new cities they're inventing, doing new things, in the south. 
Climate is a profoundly complex, nonlinear system, full of runaway positive feedbacks, hidden thresholds and irrevocable tipping points. 
We're going to keep being surprised. And almost all the surprises are going to be bad ones. 
If all of the electricity you used in your lifetime was nuclear, the amount of waste that would be added up would fit in a Coke can. 
It's interesting, say, to take a 25-megawatt, 25 million watts, and you compare it to the standard big iron of an ordinary Westinghouse or Ariva, which is 1.2, 1.6 billion watts. 
These things are way smaller. They're much more adaptable. 
This is a list of them. 
And as those events keep happening we're going to say, Okay, what can we do about that really? 
Here is an example that climatologists like a lot, one of the dozens of geoengineering ideas. 
Now this shouldn't come as a surprise to us. 
As with BP, the hole does get plugged, at least temporarily, but not before exacting a tremendous price. 
Now both of these options -- the boy genius and the scammer -- are going to make you vastly overconfident and therefore more prone to taking even bigger risks in the future. 
The Gulf of Mexico is a very big ocean. 
In other words, the ocean is big; she can take it. 
A new bubble will replace the old one. 
Now looking at these images, it's difficult to grasp the scale of this operation, which can already be seen from space and could grow to an area the size of England. 
An escape hatch has been reached. 
OK. DH: Oh! All right. 
I'm now pushing my luck: I'm skipping right to six cups. 
Also three with his left. 
Oh! It's time for Richard's help.  
Excuse me, could we work on the design of the microphone? 
Wow, you've been working out. 
OK, here we go. 
There you go. 
First one. 
What happened there? 
Do you want me to hold you or not? DH: Don't hold me that hard. 
Just do it juggler boys, you say? 
Even the pencil. 
Will someone please throw a small farm animal up onto the stage? 
Where's Gloria?  
Yeah, a little sketchy. 
What do you want me to do with it? 
Nice. 
Oh, Barry, is there nothing you can't do? 
You are my hero. You're my Jim Shea, Jr. 
I do, I do. 
Please, please stay seated. Stay seated. Thank you. 
Thank you very much! 
I have a big impact on the planet to travel here by plane. 
One billion people have not enough to eat. 
Palm tree plantation in Borneo. 
I always show my pictures in the street. 
Man: The most beautiful thing that has happened to me in life? 
Woman: Love? Love is nice if you can have it. 
Eighth Man: I had a big laugh today. 
Ninth Man: You see, family is ... it's awful. 
My family ... What can I say? 
If someday I can achieve something, I would like to say thank you daddy and mommy. 
If I do like you, I give you one cow and many other things and we become friends. 
YAB: You can also go to the website, answer -- respond to the questions also. 
Now I am going to speak to you about my movie. 
Video: This Earth is four and a half billion years old. 
There is no business on this movie. 
Merci beaucoup. I love you. 
Well we have a whole O.R. team, general anesthesia, nurses, and another doctor across from me. 
There will be two passes here, in the same patient, from the same hole. 
This was done under local anesthesia, as an outpatient. 
In the last decade there's been an explosion of use of bone marrow stem cells to treat the patient's other diseases such as heart disease, vascular disease, orthopedics, tissue engineering, even in neurology to treat Parkinson's and diabetes. 
We've just come out, we're commercializing, this year, generation 2.0 of the Marrow Miner. 
That was all done on a machine that looks like this. 
So now what we do is we take a genome, we make maybe 50 copies of it, we cut all those copies up into little 50-base reads, and then we sequence them, massively parallel. 
And he sequenced, he took skin cells, healthy skin, and cancerous bone marrow, and he sequenced the whole genomes of both of them in a couple of weeks, no big deal. 
And so they were given L-Dopa, and their symptoms did improve, but they weren't totally asymptomatic. 
And so what he did was he got his kids sequenced. 
Thankfully, I was able to answer A, and I say that honestly in case my life insurance agent is listening. 
Not hard to imagine. My company has software that does this right now. 
It can be summed up in a single sentence: Everything that can happen, does. 
And things can happen only if these interactions are perfectly balanced. 
All of these matter particles come in left- and right-handed varieties, and have anti-particle partners that carry opposite charges. 
These matter particles all interact with the various force particles. 
The most important thing to understand here is that there's a different kind of charge associated with each of these forces. 
A particle that hasn't been seen yet, but we're pretty sure exists, is the Higgs particle, which gives masses to all these other particles. 
And it seems strange that nature would have so many elementary particles. 
The most familiar charge is electric charge. 
Now, it turns out the electric charge is actually a combination of two other charges: hypercharge and weak charge. 
For example, this weak force particle and its anti-particle can be created in a collision. 
One of the weak particles could decay into an electron and an anti-neutrino, and these three still add to zero total charge. 
So there's an old idea in particle physics that this known pattern of charges, which is not very symmetric, could emerge from a more perfect pattern that gets broken -- similar to how the Higgs particle breaks the electroweak pattern to give electromagnetism. 
This particular choice corresponds to a grand unified theory introduced by Pati and Salam in 1973. 
The larger pattern allows us to predict the existence of particles that have never been seen. 
These particles are not uniquely identified by their six charges. 
Each point in this pattern corresponds to a symmetry of this very complex and beautiful shape. 
And this idea that nature is described by mathematics is not at all new. 
In 1623, Galileo wrote this: Nature's grand book, which stands continually open to our gaze, is written in the language of mathematics. 
And, of course, bad for me personally. 
In this regard, new physics theories are a lot like start-up companies. 
As with any large investment, it can be emotionally difficult to abandon a line of research when it isn't working out. 
I try to balance my life equally between physics, love and surfing -- my own three charge directions. 
And that shape has remarkable similarities -- and the way it fits into this E8 pattern could be the rest of the picture. 
They are more like us than any other living creature, and we've heard about that during this TED Conference. 
Chimpanzees, I believe, more than any other living creature, have helped us to understand that, after all, there is no sharp line between humans and the rest of the animal kingdom. 
There isn't time to go into it, but it's including things like tree nurseries, methods of farming most suitable to this now very degraded, almost desert-like land up in these mountains. 
Ways of reclaiming overused farmland, so that within two years they can again be productive. 
Perhaps build some schoolrooms. 
And we've got, as is the case around the world, about 95 percent of all loans returned. 
And as a result of this program, something's happening for conservation. 
What's happening for conservation is that the farmers living in these 24 villages, instead of looking on us as a bunch of white people coming to study a whole bunch of monkeys -- and by the way, many of the staff are now Tanzanian -- but when we began the TACARE program, it was a Tanzanian team going into the villages. 
And everywhere there were these terrible problems. 
And you know the kind I'm talking about. I'm talking about pollution. 
The water -- water is perhaps one of the most crucial issues that we're going to face in this century -- and everywhere water is being polluted by agricultural, industrial and household chemicals that still are being sprayed around the world, seemingly with the inability to profit from past experience. 
In many parts of sub-Saharan Africa, the droughts are so much worse. 
Well, do you think there could be some kind of disconnect between this extraordinarily clever brain, the kind of brain that the TED technologies exemplify, and the human heart? Talking about it in the non-scientific term, in terms of love and compassion. Is there some disconnect? 
We have compromised their future. 
Hundreds and thousands of young people around the world can break through and can make this a better world for all living things. 
One of their projects will be to help animals -- not just wildlife, domestic animals as well. 
You can't come to a conference like TED and not have hope, can you? 
And I mean, think of the technologies. 
How many of us have children or grandchildren, nieces, nephews? 
People like this are so inspirational. 
And I hope that some of us can get together and talk about some of these things, especially the Roots and Shoots program. 
And it was very, very exciting for me to meet her and see just one example of how young people, when they are empowered, given the opportunity to take action, to make the world a better place, truly are our hope for tomorrow. 
But other than letting some of you live out your fantasy of looking as cool as Tom Cruise in Minority Report, the reason why we're really excited about this device is that it really can act as one of these sixth-sense devices that gives you relevant information about whatever is in front of you. 
You can get video annotations of the event that you're reading about You can get the latest sports scores etc. 
I then, in the last few years, learned about the Pacific garbage patch and the gyre. 
And the bigger picture is: we need to find a way to turn off the faucet. 
It's not just that gyre of plastic that I'm concerned about -- it's the gyre of plastic in the supermarket. 
You put something in a bin and you don't have to think about it again. 
And I'm sure you'll feel that it's from a safe source. 
But what if it wasn't? 
The smallest bacteria is about 200 nanometers. 
But I got to thinking, you know, if we were in the middle of a flood zone in Bangladesh, the water wouldn't look like this. 
There we go. Mind the electrics. 
Pop the cartridge out. Pop a new one in. 
About half a cent a day to run. 
To put that into context, The U.K. government spends about 12 billion pounds a year on foreign aid. 
Phyllis Rodriguez: We are here today because of the fact that we have what most people consider an unusual friendship. 
And yet, it feels natural to us now. 
And when I saw it -- and yet, through the shock, the terrible shock, and the terrible explosion in our lives, literally, we were not vengeful. 
I am the mother of Zacarias Moussaoui. 
My son, I don't know where he is. 
So that's why I decided to tell my story, so that my suffering is something positive for other women. 
We must be hand-in-hand and do something together. 
So if I can save one of the young girls, and avoid that they get married and suffer as much as I did, well this is something good. 
I would like to say that I have learned so much from Aicha, starting with that day we had our very first meeting with other family members -- which was a very private meeting with security, because it was November 2002, and, frankly, we were afraid of the super-patriotism of that time in the country -- those of us family members. 
Why did we want to meet her? 
And what happened then is we all told our stories, and we all connected as human beings. 
I never had met someone with such a hard life, from such a totally different culture and environment from my own. 
And these are always periods, ladies and gentlemen, accompanied by turbulence, and all too often by blood. 
For power is not just moving laterally from nation to nation. 
It's also moving vertically. 
My guess is, for what it's worth, is that the United States will remain the most powerful nation on earth for the next 10 years, 15, but the context in which she holds her power has now radically altered; it has radically changed. 
But that's not a usual case in history. 
A fixed polarity of power means fixed alliances. 
Canning, the great British foreign secretary once said, Britain has a common interest, but no common allies. 
At that time, the defense of my country was about one thing and one thing only: how strong was our army, how strong was our air force, how strong was our navy and how strong were our allies. 
But now one final thing. 
Collective security is not enough. 
Peace has come to Northern Ireland because both sides realized that the zero-sum game couldn't work. 
And so suddenly, ladies and gentlemen, what has been the proposition of visionaries and poets down the ages becomes something we have to take seriously as a matter of public policy. 
I started with a poem, I'll end with one. 
For John Donne, a recommendation of morality. 
But if you ask the average American what the optimal formula of longevity is, they probably couldn't tell you. 
You have the USDA food pyramid. 
False. 
It reminds me of my college days. 
So to make it to age 100, you not only have to have had a very good lifestyle, you also have to have won the genetic lottery. 
That's why a 65-year-old person is aging at a rate of about 125 times faster than a 12-year-old person. 
And research shows that they would be years largely free of chronic disease, heart disease, cancer and diabetes. 
But the real secret I think lies more in the way that they organize their society. 
Just look at the advertisements. 
One fifth the rate of colon and breast cancer, big killers here in America. 
We're down to one and half right now. 
This particular Moai, these five ladies have been together for 97 years. 
And then one day, boom, we retire. 
But they influence each other in profound and measurable ways. 
They don't have any conveniences. 
That burns calories just as much as going on the treadmill does. 
They know how to set up their life in the right way so they have the right outlook. 
You know the two most dangerous years in your life are the year you're born, because of infant mortality, and the year you retire. 
And they have strategies to keep from overeating, little things that nudge them away from the table at the right time. 
And then the foundation of all this is how they connect. 
Diets don't work. No diet in the history of the world has ever worked for more than two percent of the population. 
So when I had the chance to give the world's expert in gravity the experience of zero gravity, it was incredible. 
You can get eight, 10 minutes of weightlessness -- how NASA's trained their astronauts for so long. 
And you can actually roll some of the pictures now, because I don't want to look at me on the screen. 
It's almost like that old recipe for chicken soup where you boil the chicken until the flavor is just gone. 
These micro-machines, which are the envy of nanotechnologists the world over, are self-directed, powerful, precise, accurate devices that are made out of strings of amino acids. 
And so what I'm going to show you is a three-minute Reader's Digest version of the first aspect of this film that we produced. It's an ongoing project that's going to go another four or five years. 
And each of us has about 100,000 of these things running around, right now, inside each one of your 100 trillion cells. 
So no matter how lazy you feel, you're not really intrinsically doing nothing. 
And three years ago, one of the things I learned how to do was to become invisible. 
I didn't always succeed. 
A friend told me, shortly after that, that she had heard that Tim Russert, a nationally renowned journalist, had been talking about me on national T.V. 
In my country, that was the case in 1974. 
The women said, We agree. We'll use pills, but we need a doctor to prescribe the pills, and we had very, very few doctors. 
Wherever there were people -- and you can see boats with the women, selling things -- here's the floating market selling bananas and crabs and also contraceptives -- wherever you find people, you'll find contraceptives in Thailand. 
We introduced our first microcredit program in 1975, and the women who organized it said, We only want to lend to women who practice family planning. 
It's a part of the Village Development Bank; it's not a real bank, but it's a fund -- microcredit. 
And then we thought we'd help America, because America's been helping everyone, whether they want help or not. 
I said, Don't worry. Come over and I'll do the whole lot of you. 
And what happened? 
Then AIDS came along and hit Thailand, and we had to stop doing a lot of good things to fight AIDS. 
But unfortunately, the government was in denial, denial, denial. 
And he said, Mechai, could you come and join? 
He became the chairman of the National AIDS Committee and increased the budget fifty-fold. 
And then we gave condoms out everywhere on the streets -- everywhere, everywhere. 
And then this is the picture I mentioned to you -- the weapon of mass protection. 
We all need to help. 
And before you can borrow the money, you need to be trained. 
Otherwise they'll never get out of poverty. 
And it's a center, a focal point for economic and social development. 
So we have now found the weapon of mass protection. 
In the last 20 years I have published a few books, but I have lived in anonymity until February of 2006, when I carried the Olympic flag in the Winter Olympics in Italy. 
That made me a celebrity. Now people recognize me in Macy's, and my grandchildren think that I'm cool. 
My measurements. 
Those athletes had sacrificed everything to compete in the games. 
When asked in a TV interview, How could she look so good? 
Sophia Loren was right in front of me -- she's a foot taller than I am, not counting the poofy hair. 
Somehow she manages to keep her seven children alive, and a few months later, she gives birth to premature twins. 
Somehow, the family survives for 16 months, and then, by extraordinary luck, and the passionate heart of a young American man, Sasha Chanoff, who manages to put her in a U.S. rescue plane, Rose Mapendo and her nine children end up in Phoenix, Arizona, where they're now living and thriving. 
Once, when my daughter Paula was in her twenties, she said to me that feminism was dated, that I should move on. 
Yes, for privileged women like my daughter and all of us here today, but not for most of our sisters in the rest of the world who are still forced into premature marriage, prostitution, forced labor -- they have children that they don't want or they cannot feed. 
The place is a small women's clinic in a village in Bangladesh. 
She's not licensed for that; she has never done it. 
The woman's face looks like a watermelon. 
It is so swollen that you can't even see the eyes. 
Jenny is horrified at what she has done, but then the translator explains that the patient's condition has nothing to do with the operation. 
They are paid less than men for the same work if they're paid at all, and they remain vulnerable because they have no economic independence, and they are constantly threatened by exploitation, violence and abuse. 
In any war today, most of the casualties are civilians, mainly women and children. They are collateral damage. 
I'm talking about men with young minds, of course. 
Six billion hungry carnivores to feed, by 2050. 
And when you think that 80 percent of global trade in food now is controlled by just five multinational corporations, it's a grim picture. 
So the grain markets were to the south of the city. 
But also you have to imagine it full of food. 
And if we look at an image of Smithfield in 1830 you can see that it would have been very difficult to live in a city like this and be unaware of where your food came from. 
It even got built, but nothing to do with this vision that Howard had. 
So I've come up with an alternative, which is Sitopia, from the ancient Greek, sitos for food, and topos for place. 
I believe we already live in Sitopia. 
So if we were to do that, what might Sitopia look like? 
Because without these kinds of people we can't have places like this. 
And equally important is the negative version -- Don't do to others what you would not like them to do to you. 
I sometimes see when I'm speaking to a congregation of religious people a sort of mutinous expression crossing their faces because people often want to be right instead. 
And so we have a choice, it seems to me. 
And also see that it demands acute intelligence, not just a gooey feeling. 
In this room, all this expertise, if we joined it all together, we could change the world. 
Who knew about extension managers? 
Now, why would I care about Rome, particularly? 
These are just drawings of Rome. I get back as often as possible -- I need to. 
These are sketches of some of the little details. 
Here's a little map. And I thought of maps at the beginning; maybe I should just try and do a little atlas of my favorite streets and connections in Rome. 
Over the Spanish Steps we go. 
She parks her dirigible, lowers the anchor rope and climbs down for a closer look inside. 
The text here is right side and upside down so that you are forced to turn the book around, and you can see it from ground point of view and from her point of view -- looking in the hole, getting a different kind of perspective, moving you around the space. Particularly appropriate in a building that can contain perfectly a sphere dimensions of the diameter being the same as the distance from the center of the floor to the center of the Oculus. 
Everything he sees from this point on is slightly affected by the linguine, but keeps on moving because this guy's got a job to do. 
Then I thought, Wait a minute, what am I doing? 
If I do a foldout page on the left-hand side and let you just unfold it, you see behind it what I mean by scar tissue. 
Pigeon's Progress struck me as a catchy title. 
You can see the tombs and pines and so on and so forth along the way. 
This is something that's a little bit unusual. 
This is one of those things I show to my students because it's a complete bastardization -- a denial of any rules of perspective. 
I have all the pieces: there's Santa Maria della Pace, there's a soccer ball, there's a little bit of a bird's wing -- nothing's happening, so I had to rethink it. 
Thank you very much. 
So there's something super interesting about natural systems. 
The first two are the MacroBot and DeciBot. 
One of them is the input from the user, as you're building your bricks. 
So each chain, or each element, wants to turn right or left. 
You're telling each unit if it should turn right or left. 
So you can basically program any three-dimensional shape -- or one-dimensional, two-dimensional -- up into this chain completely passively. 
At the end of the lecture they asked a number of questions, but there was one that's really stuck with me since then. 
And he reached the point where he felt that there must be something out there that was smaller than the smallest forms of life that were ever known -- bacteria, at the time. 
As we started to look at this information, we would see that about 20 percent of the genetic information in your nose doesn't match anything that we've ever seen before -- no plant, animal, fungus, virus or bacteria. 
So can we have the lights off, please, so we can see it? 
Well, not quite, not quite perfect -- you see, in intergalactic space -- intergalactic space is completely dark, pitch dark. 
That's how big and how dark the universe is. 
And that is how un-typical this place is. 
Now that is knowledge. And if that weren't amazing enough, the faithfulness with which the one structure resembles the other is increasing with time. That is the growth of knowledge. 
Now how does the solar system -- and our environment, in the form of us -- acquire this special relationship with the rest of the universe? 
Well, one thing that's true about Stephen Hawking's remark -- I mean, it is true, but it's the wrong emphasis.  One thing that's true about it is that it doesn't do it with any special physics. There's no special dispensation, no miracles involved. It does it simply with three things that we have here in abundance. 
One of them is matter, because the growth of knowledge is a form of information processing. Information processing is computation, computation requires a computer -- there's no known way of making a computer without matter. 
And the same -- well, if we could do that we'd automatically have an energy supply, because the transmutation would be a fusion reactor -- and evidence? 
And with a more powerful telescope, you'll be able to see stars, and planets. 
And locally there you could build particle accelerators, and learn elementary particle physics, and chemistry, and so on. 
The danger is not at all unprecedented. Species go extinct all the time. 
And it's true that an ounce of prevention equals a pound of cure, but that's only if we know what to prevent. 
The world is buzzing at the moment with plans to force reductions in gas emissions at all costs. 
They're not central to the human effort to face this problem, or problems in general. 
And that is, I understand that optimists greatly outlive pessimists. 
It's only 10 years ago this month when we published the first sequence of a free-living organism, that of haemophilus influenzae. 
We can now do that same genome project in the order of two to eight hours. 
And we started the Sorcerer II Expedition, where we were, as with great oceanographic expeditions, trying to sample the ocean every 200 miles. 
And with doing this, we've made some amazing discoveries. 
I view that these genes are now not only the design components of evolution. 
Transposons are just small pieces of DNA that randomly insert in the genetic code. 
We found that synthesizing accurate DNA in large pieces was extremely difficult. 
And there's only two countries, the U.S. and the former Soviet Union, that had major efforts on trying to create biological warfare agents. 
I think future engineered species could be the source of food, hopefully a source of energy, environmental remediation and perhaps replacing the petrochemical industry. 
It was actually a very strange study, because the various religious leaders were using their scriptures as law books, and they couldn't find anything in them prohibiting making life, so it must be OK. The only ultimate concerns were biological warfare aspects of this, but gave us the go ahead to start these experiments for the reasons we were doing them. 
It poses a very fascinating puzzle for us. 
In particular check out Asia. 
Zoom in on Haiti, in outline here. 
But Deng Xiaoping instinctively understood the importance of offering choices to his people. 
Demonstrated successes there led to a consensus for a move toward the market model for the entire economy. 
We can go do it over and over again. 
We also need the choices for people. 
The final thing we need are choices for leaders. 
Now, when I say that, some of you are starting to think, Well, is this just bringing back colonialism? 
Let us have a Hong Kong nearby. 
Some of my citizens will move into that city as well. 
Many of them totally get the notion of a special zone that people can opt into as a rule. 
So let me show you why that's wrong. 
Take this representation of all of the land. 
Their kids can get an education. 
So what will it take to get started building the first charter cities, scaling this so we build many more? 
Let's have a system where we have ownership of land that is registered in a government office, that people can pledge as collateral. 
15 seconds studio. 
Philip Zimbardo: Let's tune into the conversation of the principals in Adam's temptation. 
Come on Adam, don't be so wishy-washy. Take a bite. I did. 
I don't want to get in trouble. 
Life is temptation. It's all about yielding, resisting, yes, no, now, later, impulsive, reflective, present focus and future focus. 
What determines any decision you make? 
You can focus on past-positive, or past-negative. 
And moderate on present-hedonism. 
They sacrifice family time. They sacrifice friend time. 
I'm sure that resonates with some of the TEDsters. 
Told me don't eat that marshmallow, because if you wait you're going to get two of them, until I learned to balance out. 
And of all the places in the solar system that we might go to and search for answers to questions like this, there's Saturn. And we have been to Saturn before -- we visited Saturn in the early 1980s -- but our investigations of Saturn have become far more in-depth in detail since the Cassini spacecraft, traveling across interplanetary space for seven years, glided into orbit around Saturn in the summer of 2004, and became at that point the farthest robotic outpost that humanity had ever established around the Sun. 
In fact, just studying the rings alone, we stand to learn a lot about the discs of stars and gas that we call the spiral galaxies. 
And these molecules high up in the atmosphere of Titan get broken down, and their products join together to make haze particles. 
Try to imagine what the surface of Titan might look like. 
It's cold, it's eerie, it's misty, it might be raining, and you might be standing on the shores of Lake Michigan brimming with paint thinner.  
As I said, it has a thick, extensive atmosphere. 
We have instruments on Cassini which can see down to the surface through this atmosphere, and my camera system is one of them. 
They look like they've been pulled apart. 
So it was -- I mean, I'm getting goose bumps just talking about it. 
But this is somewhat of a shoreline. 
And obviously, it landed in one of these flat, dark regions and it didn't sink out of sight. So it wasn't fluid that we landed in. 
And it's probably the case that this material has washed off the highlands of Titan through these channels that we saw, and has drained over billions of years to fill in low-lying basins. 
And I think you would agree that we have found Titan is a remarkable, mystical place. It's exotic, it's alien, but yet strangely Earth-like, and having Earth-like geological formations and a tremendous geographical diversity, and is a fascinating world whose only rival in the solar system for complexity and richness is the Earth itself. 
It is a very geologically active body. 
Or this? 
Really? 
We're having trouble feeding six billion today. 
When we look at a map of Los Angeles or London, it is hard to believe that as of 2005, only 15 percent of the world was mapped to a geo-codable level of detail. 
At Google, 40 volunteers used a new software to map 120,000 kilometers of roads, 3,000 hospitals, logistics and relief points. 
Nobel Prize nominee Hernando De Soto recognized that the key to economic liftoff for most developing countries is to tap the vast amounts of uncapitalized land. 
Welcome to the new world. 
When I travel with my work across Europe and the United States, one question always comes up: Where is the Palestinian Gandhi? 
Israeli Soldier: A nonviolent protest is not going to stop the [unclear]. 
Julia Bacha: When I first heard about the story of Budrus, I was surprised that the international media had failed to cover the extraordinary set of events that happened seven years ago, in 2003. 
They had been using nonviolence for about two years but had grown disenchanted since nobody was paying attention. 
A week later, they held the most well-attended and disciplined demonstration to date. 
So the human brain has about a hundred billion neurons in it. 
So beyond spatial memory, if we look for this grid-like firing pattern throughout the whole brain, we see it in a whole series of locations which are always active when we do all kinds of autobiographical memory tasks, like remembering the last time you went to a wedding, for example. 
Or better, how do you explain when others are able to achieve things that seem to defy all of the assumptions? 
Why? How? What? 
We say what we do, we say how we're different or how we're better and we expect some sort of a behavior, a purchase, a vote, something like that. 
All I did was reverse the order of the information. 
In other words, when we communicate from the outside in, yes, people can understand vast amounts of complicated information like features and benefits and facts and figures. 
When we can communicate from the inside out, we're talking directly to the part of the brain that controls behavior, and then we allow people to rationalize it with the tangible things we say and do. 
And Samuel Pierpont Langley had, what we assume, to be the recipe for success. 
The next 34 percent are your early majority, your late majority and your laggards. 
The problem is: How do you find the ones that get it before you're doing business with them versus the ones who don't get it? 
People don't buy what you do; they buy why you do it and what you do simply proves what you believe. 
They were extremely well-funded. 
In the summer of 1963, 250,000 people showed up on the mall in Washington to hear Dr. King speak. 
Because there are leaders and there are those who lead. 
